
ONE 


MY BEST FRIEND SHOPS 


FOR A WEDDING DRESS 


My nightmare started like this. 

I was standing on a deserted street in some little beach town. It was the 
middle of the night. A storm was blowing. Wind and rain ripped at the palm trees 
along the sidewalk. Pink and yellow stucco buildings lined the street, their 
windows boarded up. A block away, past a line of hibiscus bushes, the ocean 
churned. 

Florida, I thought. Though I wasn’t sure how I knew that. I’d never been to 
Florida. 

Then I heard hooves clattering against the pavement. I turned and saw my 
friend Grover running for his life. 

Yeah, I said hooves. 

Grover is a satyr. From the waist up, he looks like a typical gangly teenager 
with a peach-fuzz goatee and a bad case of acne. He walks with a strange limp, 
but unless you happen to catch him without his pants on (which I don’t 
recommend), you’d never know there was anything un-human about him. Baggy 
jeans and fake feet hide the fact that he’s got furry hindquarters and hooves. 

Grover had been my best friend in sixth grade. He’d gone on this adventure 
with me and a girl named Annabeth to save the world, but I hadn’t seen him 
since last July, when he set off alone on a dangerous quest-a quest no satyr had 
ever returned from. 

Anyway, in my dream, Grover was hauling goat tail, holding his human 
shoes in his hands the way he does when he needs to move fast. He clopped past 
the little tourist shops and surfboard rental places. The wind bent the palm trees 
almost to the ground. 

Grover was terrified of something behind him. He must’ve just come from 
the beach. Wet sand was caked in his fur. He’d escaped from somewhere. He 
was trying to get away from ... something. 

A bone-rattling growl cut through the storm. Behind Grover, at the far end 
of the block, a shadowy figure loomed. It swatted aside a street lamp, which 
burst in a shower of sparks. 

Grover stumbled, whimpering in fear. He muttered to himself, Have to get 
away. Have to warn them! 

I couldn’t see what was chasing him, but I could hear it muttering and 


cursing. The ground shook as it got closer. Grover dashed around a street corner 
and faltered. He’d run into a dead-end courtyard full of shops. No time to back 
up. The nearest door had been blown open by the storm. The sign above the 
darkened display window read: ST. AUGUSTINE BRIDAL BOUTIQUE. 

Grover dashed inside. He dove behind a rack of wedding dresses. 

The monster’s shadow passed in front of the shop. I could smell the thing-a 
sickening combination of wet sheep wool and rotten meat and that weird sour 
body odor only monsters have, like a skunk that’s been living off Mexican food. 

Grover trembled behind the wedding dresses. The monster’s shadow passed 
on. 

Silence except for the rain. Grover took a deep breath. Maybe the thing was 
gone. 

Then lightning flashed. The entire front of the store exploded, and a 
monstrous voice bellowed: “MIININE!” 

I sat bolt upright, shivering in my bed. 

There was no storm. No monster. 

Morning sunlight filtered through my bedroom window. 

I thought I saw a shadow flicker across the glass-a humanlike shape. But 
then there was a knock on my bedroom door-my mom called: “Percy, you’re 
going to be late”-and the shadow at the window disappeared. 

It must’ve been my imagination. A fifth-story window with a rickety old 
fire escape ... there couldn’t have been anyone out there. 

“Come on, dear,” my mother called again. “Last day of school. You should 
be excited! You’ve almost made it.’” 

“Coming,” I managed. 

I felt under my pillow. My fingers closed reassuringly around the ballpoint 
pen I always slept with. I brought it out, studied the Ancient Greek writing 
engraved on the side: Anaklusmos. Riptide. 

I thought about uncapping it, but something held me back. I hadn’t used 
Riptide for so long.... 

Besides, my mom had made me promise not to use deadly weapons in the 
apartment after I’d swung a javelin the wrong way and taken out her china 
cabinet. I put Anaklusmos on my nightstand and dragged myself out of bed. 

I got dressed as quickly as I could. I tried not to think about my nightmare 
or monsters or the shadow at my window. 

Have to get away. Have to warn them! 

What had Grover meant? 

I made a three-fingered claw over my heart and pushed outward-an ancient 
gesture Grover had once taught me for warding off evil. 


The dream couldn’t have been real. 

Last day of school. My mom was right, I should have been excited. For the 
first time in my life, ’d almost made it an entire year without getting expelled. 
No weird accidents. No fights in the classroom. No teachers turning into 
monsters and trying to kill me with poisoned cafeteria food or exploding 
homework. Tomorrow, I’d be on my way to my favorite place in the world- 
Camp Half-Blood. 

Only one more day to go. Surely even I couldn’t mess that up. 

As usual, I didn’t have a clue how wrong I was. 

My mom made blue waffles and blue eggs for breakfast. She’s funny that 
way, celebrating special occasions with blue food. I think it’s her way of saying 
anything is possible. Percy can pass seventh grade. Waffles can be blue. Little 
miracles like that. 

I ate at the kitchen table while my mom washed dishes. She was dressed in 
her work uniform-a starry blue skirt and a red-and-white striped blouse she wore 
to sell candy at Sweet on America. Her long brown hair was pulled back in a 
ponytail. 

The waffles tasted great, but I guess I wasn’t digging in like I usually did. 
My mom looked over and frowned. “Percy, are you all right?” 

“Yeah ... fine.” 

But she could always tell when something was bothering me. She dried her 
hands and sat down across from me. “School, or ...” 

She didn’t need to finish. I knew what she was asking. 

“T think Grover’s in trouble,” I said, and I told her about my dream. 

She pursed her lips. We didn’t talk much about the other part of my life. We 
tried to live as normally as possible, but my mom knew all about Grover. 

“T wouldn’t be too worried, dear,” she said. “Grover is a big satyr now. If 
there were a problem, I’m sure we would’ve heard from ... from camp... .” Her 
shoulders tensed as she said the word camp. 

“What is it?” I asked. 

“Nothing,” she said. “I'll tell you what. This afternoon we’ll celebrate the 
end of school. I’ll take you and Tyson to Rockefeller Center-to that skateboard 
shop you like.” 

Oh, man, that was tempting. We were always struggling with money. 
Between my mom’s night classes and my private school tuition, we could never 
afford to do special stuff like shop for a skateboard. But something in her voice 
bothered me. 

“Wait a minute,” I said. “I thought we were packing me up for camp 
tonight.” 


She twisted her dishrag. “Ah, dear, about that ... I got a message from 
Chiron last night.” 

My heart sank. Chiron was the activities director at Camp Half-Blood. He 
wouldn’t contact us unless something serious was going on. “What did he say?” 

“He thinks ... it might not be safe for you to come to camp just yet. We 
might have to postpone.” 

“Postpone? Mom, how could it not be safe? I’m a half-blood! It’s like the 
only safe place on earth for me!” 

“Usually, dear. But with the problems they’re having-“ 

“What problems?” 

“Percy ... I’m very, very sorry. I was hoping to talk to you about it this 
afternoon. I can’t explain it all now. I’m not even sure Chiron can. Everything 
happened so suddenly.” 

My mind was reeling. How could I not go to camp? I wanted to ask a 
million questions, but just then the kitchen clock chimed the half-hour. 

My mom looked almost relieved. “Seven-thirty, dear. You should go. Tyson 
will be waiting.” 

“But-“ 

“Percy, we’ll talk this afternoon. Go on to school.” 

That was the last thing I wanted to do, but my mom had this fragile look in 
her eyes-a kind of warning, like if I pushed her too hard she’d start to cry. 
Besides, she was right about my friend Tyson. I had to meet him at the subway 
station on time or he’d get upset. He was scared of traveling underground alone. 

I gathered up my stuff, but I stopped in the doorway. “Mom, this problem at 
camp. Does it... could it have anything to do with my dream about Grover?” 

She wouldn’t meet my eyes. “We’ll talk this afternoon, dear. I’ll explain ... 
as much as I can.” 

Reluctantly, I told her good-bye. I jogged downstairs to catch the Number 
Two train. 

I didn’t know it at the time, but my mom and I would never get to have our 
afternoon talk. 

In fact, I wouldn’t be seeing home for a long, long time. 

As I stepped outside, I glanced at the brownstone building across the street. 
Just for a second I saw a dark shape in the morning sunlight-a human silhouette 
against the brick wall, a shadow that belonged to no one. 

Then it rippled and vanished. 


TWO 


I PLAY DODGEBALL 


WITH CANNIBALS 


My day started normal. Or as normal as it ever gets at Meriwether College 
Prep. 

See, it’s this “progressive” school in downtown Manhattan, which means 
we sit on beanbag chairs instead of at desks, and we don’t get grades, and the 
teachers wear jeans and rock concert T-shirts to work. 

That’s all cool with me. I mean, I’m ADHD and dyslexic, like most half- 
bloods, so I’d never done that great in regular schools even before they kicked 
me out. The only bad thing about Meriwether was that the teachers always 
looked on the bright side of things, and the kids weren’t always ... well, bright. 

Take my first class today: English. The whole middle school had read this 
book called Lord of the Flies, where all these kids get marooned on an island and 
go psycho. So for our final exam, our teachers sent us into the break yard to 
spend an hour with no adult supervision to see what would happen. What 
happened was a massive wedgie contest between the seventh and eighth graders, 
two pebble fights, and a full-tackle basketball game. The school bully, Matt 
Sloan, led most of those activities. 

Sloan wasn’t big or strong, but he acted like he was. He had eyes like a pit 
bull, and shaggy black hair, and he always dressed in expensive but sloppy 
clothes, like he wanted everybody to see how little he cared about his family’s 
money. One of his front teeth was chipped from the time he’d taken his daddy’s 
Porsche for a joyride and run into a PLEASE SLOW DOWN FOR CHILDREN 
sign. 

Anyway, Sloan was giving everybody wedgies until he made the mistake of 
trying it on my friend Tyson. 

Tyson was the only homeless kid at Meriwether College Prep. As near as 
my mom and I could figure, he’d been abandoned by his parents when he was 
very young, probably because he was so ... different. He was six-foot-three and 
built like the Abominable Snowman, but he cried a lot and was scared of just 
about everything, including his own reflection. His face was kind of misshapen 
and brutal-looking. I couldn’t tell you what color his eyes were, because I could 
never make myself look higher than his crooked teeth. His voice was deep, but 
he talked funny, like a much younger kid-I guess because he’d never gone to 
school before coming to Meriwether. He wore tattered jeans, grimy size-twenty 
sneakers, and a plaid flannel shirt with holes in it. He smelled like a New York 
City alleyway, because that’s where he lived, in a cardboard refrigerator box off 


72nd Street. 

Meriwether Prep had adopted him as a community service project so all the 
students could feel good about themselves. Unfortunately, most of them couldn’t 
stand Tyson. Once they discovered he was a big softie, despite his massive 
strength and his scary looks, they made themselves feel good by picking on him. 
I was pretty much his only friend, which meant he was my only friend. 

My mom had complained to the school a million times that they weren’t 
doing enough to help him. She’d called social services, but nothing ever seemed 
to happen. The social workers claimed Tyson didn’t exist. They swore up and 
down that they’d visited the alley we described and couldn’t find him, though 
how you miss a giant kid living in a refrigerator box, I don’t know. 

Anyway, Matt Sloan snuck up behind him and tried to give him a wedgie, 
and Tyson panicked. He swatted Sloan away a little too hard. Sloan flew fifteen 
feet and got tangled in the little kids’ tire swing. 

“You freak!” Sloan yelled. “Why don’t you go back to your cardboard 
box!” 

Tyson started sobbing. He sat down on the jungle gym so hard he bent the 
bar, and buried his head in his hands. 

“Take it back, Sloan!” I shouted. 

Sloan just sneered at me. “Why do you even bother, Jackson? You might 
have friends if you weren’t always sticking up for that freak.” 

I balled my fists. I hoped my face wasn’t as red as it felt. “He’s not a freak. 
He’s just...” 

I tried to think of the right thing to say, but Sloan wasn’t listening. He and 
his big ugly friends were too busy laughing. I wondered if it were my 
imagination, or if Sloan had more goons hanging around him than usual. I was 
used to seeing him with two or three, but today he had like, half a dozen more, 
and I was pretty sure I’d never seen them before. 

“Just wait till PE, Jackson,” Sloan called. “You are so dead.” 

When first period ended, our English teacher, Mr. de Milo, came outside to 
inspect the carnage. He pronounced that we’d understood Lord of the Flies 
perfectly. We all passed his course, and we should never, never grow up to be 
violent people. Matt Sloan nodded earnestly, then gave me a chip-toothed grin. 

I had to promise to buy Tyson an extra peanut butter sandwich at lunch to 
get him to stop sobbing. 

“T ... lama freak?” he asked me. 

“No,” I promised, gritting my teeth. “Matt Sloan is the freak.” 

Tyson sniffled. “You are a good friend. Miss you next year if ... if I can’t 


3” 


His voice trembled. I realized he didn’t know if he’d be invited back next 
year for the community service project. I wondered if the headmaster had even 
bothered talking to him about it. 

“Don’t worry, big guy,” I managed. “Everything’s going to be fine.” 

Tyson gave me such a grateful look I felt like a big liar. How could I 
promise a kid like him that anything would be fine? 

Our next exam was science. Mrs. Tesla told us that we had to mix 
chemicals until we succeeded in making something explode, Tyson was my lab 
partner. His hands were way too big for the tiny vials we were supposed to use. 
He accidentally knocked a tray of chemicals off the counter and made an orange 
mushroom cloud in the trash can. 

After Mrs. Tesla evacuated the lab and called the hazardous waste removal 
squad, she praised Tyson and me for being natural chemists. We were the first 
ones who’d ever aced her exam in under thirty seconds. 

I was glad the moming went fast, because it kept me from thinking too 
much about my problems. I couldn’t stand the idea that something might be 
wrong at camp. Even worse, I couldn’t shake the memory of my bad dream. I 
had a terrible feeling that Grover was in danger. 

In social studies, while we were drawing latitude/longitude maps, I opened 
my notebook and stared at the photo inside-my friend Annabeth on vacation in 
Washington, D.C. She was wearing jeans and a denim jacket over her orange 
Camp Half-Blood T-shirt. Her blond hair was pulled back in a bandanna. She 
was standing in front of the Lincoln Memorial with her arms crossed, looking 
extremely pleased with herself, like she’d personally designed the place. See, 
Annabeth wants to be an architect when she grows up, so she’s always visiting 
famous monuments and stuff. She’s weird that way. She’d e-mailed me the 
picture after spring break, and every once in a while I’d look at it just to remind 
myself she was real and Camp Half-Blood hadn’t just been my imagination. 

I wished Annabeth were here. She’d know what to make of my dream. I’d 
never admit it to her, but she was smarter than me, even if she was annoying 
sometimes. 

I was about to close my notebook when Matt Sloan reached over and ripped 
the photo out of the rings. 

“Hey!” I protested. 

Sloan checked out the picture and his eyes got wide. “No way, Jackson. 
Who is that? She is not your-“ 

“Give it back!” My ears felt hot. 

Sloan handed the photo to his ugly buddies, who snickered and started 
ripping it up to make spit wads. They were new kids who must’ve been visiting, 


because they were all wearing those stupid HI! MY NAME IS: tags from the 
admissions office. They must’ve had a weird sense of humor, too, because 
they’d all filled in strange names like: MARROW SUCKER, SKULL EATER, 
and JOE BOB. No human beings had names like that. 

“These guys are moving here next year,” Sloan bragged, like that was 
supposed to scare me. “I bet they can pay the tuition, too, unlike your retard 
friend.” 

“He’s not retarded.” I had to try really, really hard not to punch Sloan in the 
face. 

“You’re such a loser, Jackson. Good thing I’m gonna put you out of your 
misery next period.” 

His huge buddies chewed up my photo. I wanted to pulverize them, but I 
was under strict orders from Chiron never to take my anger out on regular 
mortals, no matter how obnoxious they were. I had to save my fighting for 
monsters. 

Still, part of me thought, if Sloan only knew who I really was ... 

The bell rang. 

As Tyson and I were leaving class, a girl’s voice whispered, “Percy!” 

I looked around the locker area, but nobody was paying me any attention. 
Like any girl at Meriwether would ever be caught dead calling my name. 

Before I had time to consider whether or not I’d been imagining things, a 
crowd of kids rushed for the gym, carrying Tyson and me along with them. It 
was time for PE. Our coach had promised us a free-for-all dodgeball game, and 
Matt Sloan had promised to kill me. 

The gym uniform at Meriwether is sky blue shorts and tie-dyed ‘T-shirts. 
Fortunately, we did most of our athletic stuff inside, so we didn’t have to jog 
through Tribeca looking like a bunch of boot-camp hippie children. 

I changed as quickly as I could in the locker room because I didn’t want to 
deal with Sloan. I was about to leave when Tyson called, “Percy?” 

He hadn’t changed yet. He was standing by the weight room door, clutching 
his gym clothes. “Will you... uh...” 

“Oh. Yeah.” I tried not to sound aggravated about it. “Yeah, sure, man.” 

Tyson ducked inside the weight room. I stood guard outside the door while 
he changed. I felt kind of awkward doing this, but he asked me to most days. I 
think it’s because he’s completely hairy and he’s got weird scars on his back that 
I’ve never had the courage to ask him about. 

Anyway, I’d learned the hard way that if people teased Tyson while he was 
dressing out, he’d get upset and start ripping the doors off lockers. 

When we got into the gym, Coach Nunley was sitting at his little desk 


reading Sports Illustrated. Nunley was about a million years old, with bifocals 
and no teeth and a greasy wave of gray hair. He reminded me of the Oracle at 
Camp Half-Blood-which was a shriveled-up mummy-except Coach Nunley 
moved a lot less and he never billowed green smoke. Well, at least not that I’d 
observed. 

Matt Sloan said, “Coach, can I be captain?” 

“Eh?” Coach Nunley looked up from his magazine. “Yeah,” he mumbled. 
“Mm-hmm.” 

Sloan grinned and took charge of the picking. He made me the other team’s 
captain, but it didn’t matter who I picked, because all the jocks and the popular 
kids moved over to Sloan’s side. So did the big group of visitors. 

On my side I had Tyson, Corey Bailer the computer geek, Raj Mandali the 
calculus whiz, and a half dozen other kids who always got harassed by Sloan and 
his gang. Normally I would’ve been okay with just Tyson-he was worth half a 
team all by himself-but the visitors on Sloan’s team were almost as tall and 
strong-looking as Tyson, and there were six of them. 

Matt Sloan spilled a cage full of balls in the middle of the gym. 

“Scared,” Tyson mumbled. “Smell funny.” 

I looked at him. “What smells funny?” Because I didn’t figure he was 
talking about himself. 

“Them.” Tyson pointed at Sloan’s new friends. “Smell funny.” 

The visitors were cracking their knuckles, eyeing us like it was slaughter 
time. I couldn’t help wondering where they were from. Someplace where they 
fed kids raw meat and beat them with sticks. 

Sloan blew the coach’s whistle and the game began. Sloan’s team ran for 
the center line. On my side, Raj Mandali yelled something in Urdu, probably “I 
have to go potty!” and ran for the exit. Corey Bailer tried to crawl behind the 
wall mat and hide. The rest of my team did their best to cower in fear and not 
look like targets. 

“Tyson,” I said. “Let’s g-“ 

A ball slammed into my gut. I sat down hard in the middle of the gym floor. 
The other team exploded in laughter. 

My eyesight was fuzzy. I felt like I’d just gotten the Heimlich maneuver 
from a gorilla. I couldn’t believe anybody could throw that hard. 

Tyson yelled, “Percy, duck!” 

I rolled as another dodgeball whistled past my ear at the speed of sound. 

Whooom! 

It hit the wall mat, and Corey Bailer yelped. 

“Hey!” I yelled at Sloan’s team. “You could kill somebody!” 


The visitor named Joe Bob grinned at me evilly. Somehow, he looked a lot 
bigger now ... even taller than Tyson. His biceps bulged beneath his T-shirt. “I 
hope so, Perseus Jackson! I hope so!” 

The way he said my name sent a chill down my back. Nobody called me 
Perseus except those who knew my true identity. Friends ... and enemies. 

What had Tyson said? They smell funny. 

Monsters. 

All around Matt Sloan, the visitors were growing in size. They were no 
longer kids. They were eight-foot-tall giants with wild eyes, pointy teeth, and 
hairy arms tattooed with snakes and hula women and Valentine hearts. 

Matt Sloan dropped his ball. “Whoa! You’re not from Detroit! Who ...” 

The other kids on his team started screaming and backing toward the exit, 
but the giant named Marrow Sucker threw a ball with deadly accuracy. It 
streaked past Raj Mandali just as he was about to leave and hit the door, 
slamming it shut like magic. Raj and some of the other kids banged on it 
desperately but it wouldn’t budge. 

“Let them go!” I yelled at the giants. 

The one called Joe Bob growled at me. He had a tattoo on his biceps that 
said: JB luvs Babycakes. “And lose our tasty morsels? No, Son of the Sea God. 
We Laistrygonians aren’t just playing for your death. We want lunch!” 

He waved his hand and a new batch of dodgeballs appeared on the center 
line-but these balls weren’t made of red rubber. They were bronze, the size of 
cannon balls, perforated like wiffle balls with fire bubbling out the holes. They 
must’ve been searing hot, but the giants picked them up with their bare hands. 

“Coach!” I yelled. 

Nunley looked up sleepily, but if he saw anything abnormal about the 
dodgeball game, he didn’t let on. That’s the problem with mortals. A magical 
force called the Mist obscures the true appearance of monsters and gods from 
their vision, so mortals tend to see only what they can understand. Maybe the 
coach saw a few eighth graders pounding the younger kids like usual. Maybe the 
other kids saw Matt Sloan’s thugs getting ready to toss Molotov cocktails 
around. (It wouldn’t have been the first time.) At any rate, I was pretty sure 
nobody else realized we were dealing with genuine man-eating bloodthirsty 
monsters. 

“Yeah. Mm-hmm,” Coach muttered. “Play nice.” 

And he went back to his magazine. 

The giant named Skull Eater threw his ball. I dove aside as the fiery bronze 
comet sailed past my shoulder. 

“Corey!” I screamed. 


Tyson pulled him out from behind the exercise mat just as the ball exploded 
against it, blasting the mat to smoking shreds. 

“Run!” I told my teammates. “The other exit!” 

They ran for the locker room, but with another wave of Joe Bob’s hand, that 
door also slammed shut. 

“No one leaves unless you’re out!” Joe Bob roared. “And you’re not out 
until we eat you!” 

He launched his own fireball. My teammates scattered as it blasted a crater 
in the gym floor. 

I reached for Riptide, which I always kept in my pocket, but then I realized 
I was wearing gym shorts. I had no pockets. Riptide was tucked in my jeans 
inside my gym locker. And the locker room door was sealed. I was completely 
defenseless. 

Another fireball came streaking toward me. Tyson pushed me out of the 
way, but the explosion still blew me head over heels. I found myself sprawled on 
the gym floor, dazed from smoke, my tie-dyed T-shirt peppered with sizzling 
holes. Just across the center line, two hungry giants were glaring down at me. 

“Flesh!” they bellowed. “Hero flesh for lunch!” They both took aim. 

“Percy needs help!” Tyson yelled, and he jumped in front of me just as they 
threw their balls. 

“Tyson!” I screamed, but it was too late. 

Both balls slammed into him ... but no ... he’d caught them. Somehow 
Tyson, who was so clumsy he knocked over lab equipment and broke 
playground structures on a regular basis, had caught two fiery metal balls 
speeding toward him at a zillion miles an hour. He sent them hurtling back 
toward their surprised owners, who screamed, “BAAAAAD!” as the bronze 
spheres exploded against their chests. 

The giants disintegrated in twin columns of flame-a sure sign they were 
monsters, all right. Monsters don’t die. They just dissipate into smoke and dust, 
which saves heroes a lot of trouble cleaning up after a fight. 

“My brothers!” Joe Bob the Cannibal wailed. He flexed his muscles and his 
Babycakes tattoo rippled. “You will pay for their destruction!” 

“Tyson!” I said. “Look out!” 

Another comet hurtled toward us. Tyson just had time to swat it aside. It 
flew straight over Coach Nunley’s head and landed in the bleachers with a huge 
KA-BOOM! 

Kids were running around screaming, trying to avoid the sizzling craters in 
the floor. Others were banging on the door, calling for help. Sloan himself stood 
petrified in the middle of the court, watching in disbelief as balls of death flew 


around him. 

Coach Nunley still wasn’t seeing anything. He tapped his hearing aid like 
the explosions were giving him interference, but he kept his eyes on his 
magazine. 

Surely the whole school could hear the noise. The headmaster, the police, 
somebody would come help us. 

“Victory will be ours!” roared Joe Bob the Cannibal. “We will feast on your 
bones!” 

I wanted to tell him he was taking the dodgeball game way too seriously, 
but before I could, he hefted another ball. The other three giants followed his 
lead. 

I knew we were dead. Tyson couldn’t deflect all those balls at once. His 
hands had to be seriously burned from blocking the first volley. Without my 
sword ... 

I had a crazy idea. 

I ran toward the locker room. 

“Move!” I told my teammates. “Away from the door.” 

Explosions behind me. Tyson had batted two of the balls back toward their 
owners and blasted them to ashes. 

That left two giants still standing. 

A third ball hurtled straight at me. I forced myself to wait-one Mississippi, 
two Mississippi-then dove aside as the fiery sphere demolished the locker room 
door. 

Now, I figured that the built-up gas in most boys’ locker rooms was enough 
to cause an explosion, so I wasn’t surprised when the flaming dodgeball ignited 
a huge WHOOOOOOOM! 

The wall blew apart. Locker doors, socks, athletic supporters, and other 
various nasty personal belongings rained all over the gym. 

I turned just in time to see Tyson punch Skull Eater in the face. The giant 
crumpled. But the last giant, Joe Bob, had wisely held on to his own ball, 
waiting for an opportunity. He threw just as Tyson was turning to face him. 

“No!” I yelled. 

The ball caught Tyson square in the chest. He slid the length of the court 
and slammed into the back wall, which cracked and partially crumbled on top of 
him, making a hole right onto Church Street. I didn’t see how Tyson could still 
be alive, but he only looked dazed. The bronze ball was smoking at his feet. 
Tyson tried to pick it up, but he fell back, stunned, into a pile of cinder blocks. 

“Well!” Joe Bob gloated. “I’m the last one standing! I?ll have enough meat 
to bring Babycakes a doggie bag!” 


He picked up another ball and aimed it at Tyson. 

“Stop!” I yelled. “It’s me you want!” 

The giant grinned. “You wish to die first, young hero?” 

I had to do something. Riptide had to be around here somewhere. 

Then I spotted my jeans in a smoking heap of clothes right by the giant’s 
feet. If I could only get there.... I knew it was hopeless, but I charged. 

The giant laughed. “My lunch approaches.” He raised his arm to throw. I 
braced myself to die. 

Suddenly the giant’s body went rigid. His expression changed from gloating 
to surprise. Right where his belly button should’ve been, his T-shirt ripped open 
and he grew something like a horn-no, not a horn-the glowing tip of a blade. 

The ball dropped out of his hand. The monster stared down at the knife that 
had just run him through from behind. 

He muttered, “Ow,” and burst into a cloud of green flame, which I figured 
was going to make Babycakes pretty upset. 

Standing in the smoke was my friend Annabeth. Her face was grimy and 
scratched. She had a ragged backpack slung over her shoulder, her baseball cap 
tucked in her pocket, a bronze knife in her hand, and a wild look in her storm- 
gray eyes, like she’d just been chased a thousand miles by ghosts. 

Matt Sloan, who’d been standing there dumbfounded the whole time, 
finally came to his senses. He blinked at Annabeth, as if he dimly recognized her 
from my notebook picture. “That’s the girl ... That’s the girl-“ 

Annabeth punched him in the nose and knocked him flat. “And you,” she 
told him, “lay off my friend.” 

The gym was in flames. Kids were still running around screaming. I heard 
sirens wailing and a garbled voice over the intercom. Through the glass windows 
of the exit doors, I could see the headmaster, Mr. Bonsai, wrestling with the lock, 
a crowd of teachers piling up behind him. 

“Annabeth ...” I stammered. “How did you ... how long have you ...” 

“Pretty much all morning.” She sheathed her bronze knife. “I’ve been 
trying to find a good time to talk to you, but you were never alone.” 

“The shadow I saw this moming-that was-” My face felt hot. “Oh my gods, 
you were looking in my bedroom window?” 

“There’s no time to explain!” she snapped, though she looked a little red- 
faced herself. “I just didn’t want to-“ 

“There!” a woman screamed. The doors burst open and the adults came 
pouring in. 

“Meet me outside,” Annabeth told me. “And him.” She pointed to Tyson, 
who was still sitting dazed against the wall. Annabeth gave him a look of 


distaste that I didn’t quite understand. “You’d better bring him.” 

“What?” 

“No time!” she said. “Hurry!” 

She put on her Yankees baseball cap, which was a magic gift from her 
mom, and instantly vanished. 

That left me standing alone in the middle of the burning gymnasium when 
the headmaster came charging in with half the faculty and a couple of police 
officers. 

“Percy Jackson?” Mr. Bonsai said. “What ... how ...” 

Over by the broken wall, Tyson groaned and stood up from the pile of 
cinder blocks. “Head hurts.” 

Matt Sloan was coming around, too. He focused on me with a look of 
terror. “Percy did it, Mr. Bonsai! He set the whole building on fire. Coach 
Nunley will tell you! He saw it all!” 

Coach Nunley had been dutifully reading his magazine, but just my luck-he 
chose that moment to look up when Sloan said his name. “Eh? Yeah. Mm-hmm.” 

The other adults turned toward me. I knew they would never believe me, 
even if I could tell them the truth. 

I grabbed Riptide out of my ruined jeans, told Tyson, “Come on!” and 
jumped through the gaping hole in the side of the building. 


THREE 


WE HAIL THE TAXI 


OF ETERNAL TORMENT 


Annabeth was waiting for us in an alley down Church Street. She pulled 
Tyson and me off the sidewalk just as a fire truck screamed past, heading for 
Meriwether Prep. 

“Where’d you find him?” she demanded, pointing at Tyson. 

Now, under different circumstances, I would’ve been really happy to see 
her. We’d made our peace last summer, despite the fact that her mom was 
Athena and didn’t get along with my dad. I’d missed Annabeth probably more 
than I wanted to admit. 

But I’d just been attacked by cannibal giants, Tyson had saved my life three 
or four times, and all Annabeth could do was glare at him like he was the 
problem. 

“He’s my friend,” I told her. 

“Ts he homeless?” 

“What does that have to do with anything? He can hear you, you know. 
Why don’t you ask him?” 

She looked surprised. “He can talk?” 

“T talk,” Tyson admitted. “You are pretty.” 

“Ah! Gross!” Annabeth stepped away from him. 

I couldn’t believe she was being so rude. I examined Tyson’s hands, which I 
was sure must’ve been badly scorched by the flaming dodge balls, but they 
looked fine-grimy and scarred, with dirty fingernails the size of potato chips-but 
they always looked like that. “Tyson,” I said in disbelief. “Your hands aren’t 
even burned.” 

“Of course not,” Annabeth muttered. “I’m surprised the Laistrygonians had 
the guts to attack you with him around.” 

Tyson seemed fascinated by Annabeth’s blond hair. He tried to touch it, but 
she smacked his hand away. 

“Annabeth,” I said, “what are you talking about? Laistry-what?” 

“Laistrygonians. The monsters in the gym. They’re a race of giant cannibals 
who live in the far north. Odysseus ran into them once, but I’ve never seen them 
as far south as New York before.” 

“Laistry-I can’t even say that. What would you call them in English?” 

She thought about it for a moment. “Canadians,” she decided. “Now come 
on, we have to get out of here.” 

“The police’ll be after me.” 


“That’s the least of our problems,” she said. “Have you been having the 
dreams?” 

“The dreams ... about Grover?” 

Her face turned pale. “Grover? No, what about Grover?” 

I told her my dream. “Why? What were you dreaming about?” 

Her eyes looked stormy, like her mind was racing a million miles an hour. 

“Camp,” she said at last. “Big trouble at camp.” 

“My mom was saying the same thing! But what kind of trouble?” 

“T don’t know exactly. Something’s wrong. We have to get there right away. 
Monsters have been chasing me all the way from Virginia, trying to stop me. 
Have you had a lot of attacks?” 

I shook my head. “None all year ... until today.” 

“None? But how ...” Her eyes drifted to Tyson. “Oh.” 

“What do you mean, ‘oh’?” 

Tyson raised his hand like he was still in class. “Canadians in the gym 
called Percy something ... Son of the Sea God?” 

Annabeth and I exchanged looks. 

I didn’t know how I could explain, but I figured Tyson deserved the truth 
after almost getting killed. 

“Big guy,” I said, “you ever hear those old stories about the Greek gods? 
Like Zeus, Poseidon, Athena-“ 

“Yes,” Tyson said. 

“Well ... those gods are still alive. They kind of follow Western Civilization 
around, living in the strongest countries, so like now they’re in the U.S. And 
sometimes they have kids with mortals. Kids called half-bloods.” 

“Yes,” Tyson said, like he was still waiting for me to get to the point. 

“Uh, well, Annabeth and I are half-bloods,” I said. “We’re like ... heroes- 
in-training. And whenever monsters pick up our scent, they attack us. That’s 
what those giants were in the gym. Monsters.” 

“Yes.” 

I stared at him. He didn’t seem surprised or confused by what I was telling 
him, which surprised and confused me. “So ... you believe me?” 

Tyson nodded. “But you are ... Son of the Sea God?” 

“Yeah,” I admitted. “My dad is Poseidon.” 

Tyson frowned. Now he looked confused. “But then ...” 

A siren wailed. A police car raced past our alley. 

“We don’t have time for this,” Annabeth said. “We’|I talk in the taxi.” 

“A taxi all the way to camp?” I said. “You know how much money-“ 

“Trust me.” 


I hesitated. “What about Tyson?” 

I imagined escorting my giant friend into Camp Half-Blood. If he freaked 
out on a regular playground with regular bullies, how would he act at a training 
camp for demigods? On the other hand, the cops would be looking for us. 

“We can’t just leave him,” I decided. “He’Il be in trouble, too.” * 

“Yeah.” Annabeth looked grim. “We definitely need to take him. Now come 
on.” 

I didn’t like the way she said that, as if Tyson were a big disease we needed 
to get to the hospital, but I followed her down the alley. Together the three of us 
sneaked through the side streets of downtown while a huge column of smoke 
billowed up behind us from my school gymnasium. 

ok 

“Here.” Annabeth stopped us on the corner of Thomas and Trimble. She 
fished around in her backpack. “I hope I have one left.” 

She looked even worse than I’d realized at first. Her chin was cut. Twigs 
and grass were tangled in her ponytail, as if she’d slept several nights in the 
open. The slashes on the hems of her jeans looked suspiciously like claw marks. 

“What are you looking for?” I asked. 

All around us, sirens wailed. I figured it wouldn’t be long before more cops 
cruised by, looking for juvenile delinquent gym-bombers. No doubt Matt Sloan 
had given them a statement by now. He’d probably twisted the story around so 
that Tyson and I were the bloodthirsty cannibals. 

“Found one. Thank the gods.” Annabeth pulled out a gold coin that I 
recognized as a drachma, the currency of Mount Olympus. It had Zeus’s likeness 
stamped on one side and the Empire State Building on the other. 

“Annabeth,” I said, “New York taxi drivers won’t take that.” 

“Stéthi,” she shouted in Ancient Greek. “O harma diabolés!” 

As usual, the moment she spoke in the language of Olympus, I somehow 
understood it. She’d said: Stop, Chariot of Damnation! 

That didn’t exactly make me feel real excited about whatever her plan was. 

She threw her coin into the street, but instead of clattering on the asphalt, 
the drachma sank right through and disappeared. 

For a moment, nothing happened. 

Then, just where the coin had fallen, the asphalt darkened. It melted into a 
rectangular pool about the size of a parking space-bubbling red liquid like blood. 
Then a car erupted from the ooze. 

It was a taxi, all right, but unlike every other taxi in New York, it wasn’t 
yellow. It was smoky gray. I mean it looked like it was woven out of smoke, like 
you could walk right through it. There were words printed on the door- 


something like GYAR SSIRES-but my dyslexia made it hard for me to decipher 
what it said. 

The passenger window rolled down, and an old woman stuck her head out. 
She had a mop of grizzled hair covering her eyes, and she spoke in a weird 
mumbling way, like she’d just had a shot of Novocain. “Passage? Passage?” 

“Three to Camp Half-Blood,” Annabeth said. She opened the cab’s back 
door and waved at me to get in, like this was all completely normal. 

“Ach!” the old woman screeched. “We don’t take his kind!” 

She pointed a bony finger at Tyson. 

What was it? Pick-on-Big-and-Ugly-Kids Day? 

“Extra pay,” Annabeth promised. “Three more drachma on arrival.” 

“Done!” the woman screamed. 

Reluctantly I got in the cab. Tyson squeezed in the middle. Annabeth 
crawled in last. 

The interior was also smoky gray, but it felt solid enough. The seat was 
cracked and lumpy-no different than most taxis. There was no Plexiglas screen 
separating us from the old lady driving ... Wait a minute. There wasn’t just one 
old lady. There were three, all crammed in the front seat, each with stringy hair 
covering her eyes, bony hands, and a charcoal-colored sackcloth dress. 

The one driving said, “Long Island! Out-of-metro fare bonus! Ha!” 

She floored the accelerator, and my head slammed against the backrest. A 
prerecorded voice came on over the speaker: Hi, this is Ganymede, cup-bearer to 
Zeus, and when I’m out buying wine for the Lord of the Skies, I always buckle 
up! 

I looked down and found a large black chain instead of a seat belt. I decided 
I wasn’t that desperate ... yet. 

The cab sped around the corner of West Broadway, and the gray lady sitting 
in the middle screeched, “Look out! Go left!” 

“Well, if you’d give me the eye, Tempest, I could see that!” the driver 
complained. 

Wait a minute. Give her the eye? 

I didn’t have time to ask questions because the driver swerved to avoid an 
oncoming delivery truck, ran over the curb with a jaw-rattling thump, and flew 
into the next block. 

“Wasp!” the third lady said to the driver. “Give me the girl’s coin! I want to 
bite it.” 

“You bit it last time, Anger!” said the driver, whose name must’ve been 
Wasp. “It’s my turn!” 

“Ts not!” yelled the one called Anger. 


The middle one, Tempest, screamed, “Red light!” 

“Brake!” yelled Anger. 

Instead, Wasp floored the accelerator and rode up on the curb, screeching 
around another comer, and knocking over a newspaper box. She left my stomach 
somewhere back on Broome Street. 

“Excuse me,” I said. “But ... can you see?” 

“No!” screamed Wasp from behind the wheel. 

“No!” screamed Tempest from the middle. 

“Of course!” screamed Anger by the shotgun window. 

I looked at Annabeth. “They’re blind?” 

“Not completely,” Annabeth said. “They have an eye.” 

“One eye?” 

“Yeah.” 

“Each?” 

“No. One eye total.” 

Next to me, Tyson groaned and grabbed the seat. “Not feeling so good.” 

“Oh, man,” I said, because I’d seen Tyson get carsick on school field trips 
and it was not something you wanted to be within fifty feet of. “Hang in there, 
big guy. Anybody got a garbage bag or something?” 

The three gray ladies were too busy squabbling to pay me any attention. I 
looked over at Annabeth, who was hanging on for dear life, and I gave her a 
why-did-you-do-this-to-me look. 

“Hey,” she said, “Gray Sisters Taxi is the fastest way to camp.” 

“Then why didn’t you take it from Virginia>?” 

“That’s outside their service area,” she said, like that should be obvious. 
“They only serve Greater New York and surrounding communities.” 

“We’ve had famous people in this cab!” Anger exclaimed. “Jason! You 
remember him?” 

“Don’t remind me!” Wasp wailed. “And we didn’t have a cab back then, 
you old bat. That was three thousand years ago!” 

“Give me the tooth!” Anger tried to grab at Wasp’s mouth, but Wasp 
swatted her hand away. 

“Only if Tempest gives me the eye!” 

“No!” Tempest screeched. “You had it yesterday!” 

“But I’m driving, you old hag!” 

“Excuses! Turn! That was your turn!” 

Wasp swerved hard onto Delancey Street, squishing me between Tyson and 
the door. She punched the gas and we shot up the Williamsburg Bridge at 
seventy miles an hour. 


The three sisters were fighting for real now, slapping each other as Anger 
tried to grab at Wasp’s face and Wasp tried to grab at Tempest’s. With their hair 
flying and their mouths open, screaming at each other, I realized that none of the 
sisters had any teeth except for Wasp, who had one mossy yellow incisor. Instead 
of eyes, they just had closed, sunken eyelids, except for Anger, who had one 
bloodshot green eye that stared at everything hungrily, as if it couldn’t get 
enough of anything it saw. 

Finally Anger, who had the advantage of sight, managed to yank the tooth 
out of her sister Wasp’s mouth. This made Wasp so mad she swerved toward the 
edge of the Williamsburg Bridge, yelling, “‘Ivit back! ‘Ivit back!” 

Tyson groaned and clutched his stomach. 

“Uh, if anybody’s interested,” I said, “we’re going to die!” 

“Don’t worry,” Annabeth told me, sounding pretty worried. “The Gray 
Sisters know what they’re doing. They’re really very wise.” 

This coming from the daughter of Athena, but I wasn’t exactly reassured. 
We were skimming along the edge of a bridge a hundred and thirty feet above 
the East River. 

“Yes, wise!” Anger grinned in the rearview mirror, showing off her newly 
acquired tooth. “We know things!” 

“Every street in Manhattan!” Wasp bragged, still hitting her sister. “The 
capital of Nepal!” 

“The location you seek!” Tempest added. 

Immediately her sisters pummeled her from either side, screaming, “Be 
quiet! Be quiet! He didn’t even ask yet!” 

“What?” I said. “What location? I’m not seeking any-“ 

“Nothing!” Tempest said. “You’re right, boy. It’s nothing!” 

“Tell me.” 

“No!” they all screamed. 

“The last time we told, it was horrible!” Tempest said. 

“Eye tossed in a lake!” Anger agreed. 

“Years to find it again!” Wasp moaned. “And speaking of that-give it back!” 

“No!” yelled Anger. 

“Eye!” Wasp yelled. “Gimme!” 

She whacked her sister Anger on the back. There was a sickening pop and 
something flew out of Anger’s face. Anger fumbled for it, trying to catch it, but 
she only managed to bat it with the back of her hand. The slimy green orb sailed 
over her shoulder, into the backseat, and straight into my lap. 

I jumped so hard, my head hit the ceiling and the eyeball rolled away. 

“T can’t see!” all three sisters yelled. 


“Give me the eye!” Wasp wailed. 

“Give her the eye!” Annabeth screamed. 

“T don’t have it!” I said. 

“There, by your foot,” Annabeth said. “Don’t step on it! Get it!” 

“T’m not picking that up!” 

The taxi slammed against the guardrail and skidded along with a horrible 
grinding noise. The whole car shuddered, billowing gray smoke as if it were 
about to dissolve from the strain. 

“Going to be sick!” Tyson warmed. 

“Annabeth,” I yelled, “let Tyson use your backpack!” 

“Are you crazy? Get the eye!” 

Wasp yanked the wheel, and the taxi swerved away from the rail. We 
hurtled down the bridge toward Brooklyn, going faster than any human taxi. The 
Gray Sisters screeched and pummeled each other and cried out for their eye. 

At last I steeled my nerves. I ripped off a chunk of my tie-dyed T-shirt, 
which was already falling apart from all the burn marks, and used it to pick the 
eyeball off the floor. 

“Nice boy!” Anger cried, as if she somehow knew I had her missing peeper. 
“Give it back!” 

“Not until you explain,” I told her. “What were you talking about, the 
location I seek?” 

“No time!” Tempest cried. “Accelerating!” 

I looked out the window. Sure enough, trees and cars and whole 
neighborhoods were now zipping by in a gray blur. We were already out of 
Brooklyn, heading through the middle of Long Island. 

“Percy,” Annabeth warned, “they can’t find our destination without the eye. 
We’ ll just keep accelerating until we break into a million pieces.” 

“First they have to tell me,” I said. “Or I?ll open the window and throw the 
eye into oncoming traffic.” 

“No!” the Gray Sisters wailed. “Too dangerous!” 

“T’m rolling down the window.” 

“Wait!” the Gray Sisters screamed. “30, 31, 75, 12!” 

They belted it out like a quarterback calling a play. 

“What do you mean?” I said. “That makes no sense!” 

“30, 31, 75, 12!” Anger wailed. “That’s all we can tell you. Now give us the 
eye! Almost to camp!” 

We were off the highway now, zipping through the countryside of northern 
Long Island. I could see Half-Blood Hill ahead of us, with its giant pine tree at 
the crest-Thalia’s tree, which contained the life force or a fallen hero. 


“Percy!” Annabeth said more urgently. “Give them the eye now!” 

I decided not to argue. I threw the eye into Wasp’s lap. 

The old lady snatched it up, pushed it into her eye socket like somebody 
putting in a contact lens, and blinked. “Whoa!” 

She slammed on the brakes. The taxi spun four or five times in a cloud of 
smoke and squealed to a halt in the middle of the farm road at the base of Half- 
Blood Hill. 

Tyson let loose a huge belch. “Better now.” 

“All right,” I told the Gray Sisters. “Now tell me what those numbers 
mean.” 

“No time!” Annabeth opened her door. “We have to get out now.” 

I was about to ask why, when I looked up at Half-Blood Hill and 
understood. 

At the crest of the hill was a group of campers. And they were under attack. 


FOUR 


TYSON PLAYS 


WITH FIRE 


Mythologically speaking, if there’s anything I hate worse than trios of old 
ladies, it’s bulls. Last summer, I fought the Minotaur on top of Half-Blood Hill. 
This time what I saw up there was even worse: two bulls. And not just regular 
bulls-bronze ones the size of elephants. And even that wasn’t bad enough. 
Naturally they had to breathe fire, too. 

As soon as we exited the taxi, the Gray Sisters peeled out, heading back to 
New York, where life was safer. They didn’t even wait for their extra three- 
drachma payment. They just left us on the side of the road, Annabeth with 
nothing but her backpack and knife, Tyson and me still in our burned-up tie-dyed 
gym clothes. 

“Oh, man,” said Annabeth, looking at the battle raging on the hill. 

What worried me most weren’t the bulls themselves. Or the ten heroes in 
full battle armor who were getting their bronze-plated booties whooped. What 
worried me was that the bulls were ranging all over the hill, even around the 
back side of the pine tree. That shouldn’t have been possible. The camp’s magic 
boundaries didn’t allow monsters to cross past Thalia’s tree. But the metal bulls 
were doing it anyway. 

One of the heroes shouted, “Border patrol, to me!” A girl’s voice-gruff and 
familiar. 

Border patrol? I thought. The camp didn’t have a border patrol. 

“Tt’s Clarisse,’” Annabeth said. “Come on, we have to help her.” 

Normally, rushing to Clarisse’s aid would not have been high on my “to do” 
list. She was one of the biggest bullies at camp. The first time we’d met she tried 
to introduce my head to a toilet. She was also a daughter of Ares, and I’d had a 
very serious disagreement with her father last summer, so now the god of war 
and all his children basically hated my guts. 

Still, she was in trouble. Her fellow warriors were scattering, running in 
panic as the bulls charged. The grass was burning in huge swathes around the 
pine tree. One hero screamed and waved his arms as he ran in circles, the 
horsehair plume on his helmet blazing like a fiery Mohawk. Clarisse’s own 
armor was charred. She was fighting with a broken spear shaft, the other end 
embedded uselessly in the metal joint of one bull’s shoulder. 

I uncapped my ballpoint pen. It shimmered, growing longer and heavier 
until I held the bronze sword Anaklusmos in my hands. “Tyson, stay here. I 
don’t want you taking any more chances.” 


“No!” Annabeth said. “We need him.” 

I stared at her. “He’s mortal. He got lucky with the dodge balls but he 
can’t-“ 

“Percy, do you know what those are up there? The Colchis bulls, made by 
Hephaestus himself. We can’t fight them without Medea’s Sunscreen SPF 
50,000. We’ ll get burned to a crisp.” 

“Medea’s what?” 

Annabeth rummaged through her backpack and cursed. “I had a jar of 
tropical coconut scent sitting on my nightstand at home. Why didn’t I bring it?” 

I’d learned a long time ago not to question Annabeth too much. It just made 
me more confused. “Look, I don’t know what you’re talking about, but I’m not 
going to let Tyson get fried.” 

“Percy-“ 

“Tyson, stay back.” I raised my sword. “I’m going in.” 

Tyson tried to protest, but I was already running up the hill toward Clarisse, 
who was yelling at her patrol, trying to get them into phalanx formation. It was a 
good idea. The few who were listening lined up shoulder-to-shoulder, locking 
their shields to form an ox-hide-and-bronze wall, their spears bristling over the 
top like porcupine quills. 

Unfortunately, Clarisse could only muster six campers. The other four were 
still running around with their helmets on fire. Annabeth ran toward them, trying 
to help. She taunted one of the bulls into chasing her, then tumed invisible, 
completely confusing the monster. The other bull charged Clarisse’s line. 

I was halfway up the hill-not close enough to help. Clarisse hadn’t even 
seen me yet. 

The bull moved deadly fast for something so big. Its metal hide gleamed in 
the sun. It had fist-sized rubies for eyes, and horns of polished silver. When it 
opened its hinged mouth, a column of white-hot flame blasted out. 

“Hold the line!” Clarisse ordered her warriors. 

Whatever else you could say about Clarisse, she was brave. She was a big 
girl with cruel eyes like her father’s. She looked like she was born to wear Greek 
battle armor, but I didn’t see how even she could stand against that bull’s charge. 

Unfortunately, at that moment, the other bull lost interest in finding 
Annabeth. It turned, wheeling around behind Clarisse on her unprotected side. 

“Behind you!” I yelled. “Look out!” 

I shouldn’t have said anything, because all I did was startle her. Bull 
Number One crashed into her shield, and the phalanx broke. Clarisse went flying 
backward and landed in a smoldering patch of grass. The bull charged past her, 
but not before blasting the other heroes with its fiery breath. Their shields melted 


right off their arms. They dropped their weapons and ran as Bull Number Two 
closed in on Clarisse for the kill. 

I lunged forward and grabbed Clarisse by the straps of her armor. I dragged 
her out of the way just as Bull Number Two freight-trained past. I gave it a good 
swipe with Riptide and cut a huge gash in its flank, but the monster just creaked 
and groaned and kept on going. 

It hadn’t touched me, but I could feel the heat of its metal skin. Its body 
temperature could’ve microwaved a frozen burrito. 

“Let me go!” Clarisse pummeled my hand. “Percy, curse you!” 

I dropped her in a heap next to the pine tree and turned to face the bulls. We 
were on the inside slope of the hill now, the valley of Camp Half-Blood directly 
below us-the cabins, the training facilities, the Big House-all of it at risk if these 
bulls got past us. 

Annabeth shouted orders to the other heroes, telling them to spread out and 
keep the bulls distracted. 

Bull Number One ran a wide arc, making its way back toward me. As it 
passed the middle of the hill, where the invisible boundary line should’ve kept it 
out, it slowed down a little, as if it were struggling against a strong wind; but 
then it broke through and kept coming. Bull Number Two tumed to face me, fire 
sputtering from the gash I’d cut in its side. I couldn’t tell if it felt any pain, but 
its ruby eyes seemed to glare at me like I’d just made things personal. 

I couldn’t fight both bulls at the same time. I’d have to take down Bull 
Number Two first, cut its head off before Bull Number One charged back into 
range. My arms already felt tired. I realized how long it had been since I’d 
worked out with Riptide, how out of practice I was. 

I lunged but Bull Number Two blew flames at me. I rolled aside as the air 
turned to pure heat. All the oxygen was sucked out of my lungs. My foot caught 
on something-a tree root, maybe-and pain shot up my ankle. Still, I managed to 
slash with my sword and lop off part of the monster’s snout. It galloped away, 
wild and disoriented. But before I could feel too good about that, I tried to stand, 
and my left leg buckled underneath me. My ankle was sprained, maybe broken. 

Bull Number One charged straight toward me. No way could I crawl out of 
its path. 

Annabeth shouted: “Tyson, help him!” 

Somewhere near, toward the crest of the hill, Tyson wailed, “Can’t-get- 
through!” 

“T, Annabeth Chase, give you permission to enter camp!” 

Thunder shook the hillside. Suddenly Tyson was there, barreling toward 
me, yelling: “Percy needs help!” 


Before I could tell him no, he dove between me and the bull just as it 
unleashed a nuclear firestorm. 

“Tyson!” I yelled. 

The blast swirled around him like a red tornado. I could only see the black 
silhouette of his body. I knew with horrible certainty that my friend had just been 
turned into a column of ashes. 

But when the fire died, Tyson was still standing there, completely 
unharmed. Not even his grungy clothes were scorched. The bull must’ve been as 
surprised as I was, because before it could unleash a second blast, Tyson balled 
his fists and slammed them into the bull’s face. “BAD COW!” 

His fists made a crater where the bronze bull’s snout used to be. Two small 
columns of flame shot out of its ears. Tyson hit it again, and the bronze crumpled 
under his hands like aluminum foil. The bull’s face now looked like a sock 
puppet pulled inside out. 

“Down!” Tyson yelled. 

The bull staggered and fell on its back. Its legs moved feebly in the air, 
steam coming out of its ruined head in odd places. 

Annabeth ran over to check on me. 

My ankle felt like it was filled with acid, but she gave me some Olympian 
nectar to drink from her canteen, and I immediately started to feel better. There 
was a burning smell that I later learned was me. The hair on my arms had been 
completely singed off. 

“The other bull?” I asked. 

Annabeth pointed down the hill. Clarisse had taken care of Bad Cow 
Number Two. She’d impaled it through the back leg with a celestial bronze 
spear. Now, with its snout half gone and a huge gash in its side, it was trying to 
run in slow motion, going in circles like some kind of merry-go-round animal. 

Clarisse pulled off her helmet and marched toward us. A strand of her 
stringy brown hair was smoldering, but she didn’t seem to notice. “You-ruin- 
everything!” she yelled at me. “I had it under control!” 

I was too stunned to answer. Annabeth grumbled, “Good to see you too, 
Clarisse.” 

“Argh!” Clarisse screamed. “Don’t ever, EVER try saving me again!” 

“Clarisse,” Annabeth said, “you’ve got wounded campers.” 

That sobered her up. Even Clarisse cared about the soldiers under her 
command. 

“T’ll be back,” she growled, then trudged off to assess the damage. 

I stared at Tyson. “You didn’t die.” 

Tyson looked down like he was embarrassed. “I am sorry. Came to help. 


Disobeyed you.” 

“My fault,’ Annabeth said. “I had no choice. I had to let Tyson cross the 
boundary line to save you. Otherwise, you would’ve died.” 

“Let him cross the boundary line?’” I asked. “But-“ 

“Percy,” she said, “have you ever looked at Tyson closely? I mean ... in the 
face. Ignore the Mist, and really look at him.” 

The Mist makes humans see only what their brains can process ... I knew it 
could fool demigods too, but... 

I looked Tyson in the face. It wasn’t easy. I’d always had trouble looking 
directly at him, though I’d never quite understood why. I’d thought it was just 
because he always had peanut butter in his crooked teeth. I forced myself to 
focus at his big lumpy nose, then a little higher at his eyes. 

No, not eyes. 

One eye. One large, calf-brown eye, right in the middle of his forehead, 
with thick lashes and big tears trickling down his cheeks on either side. 

“Tyson,” I stammered. “You’re a ...” 

“Cyclops,” Annabeth offered. “A baby, by the looks of him. Probably why 
he couldn’t get past the boundary line as easily as the bulls. Tyson’s one of the 
homeless orphans.” 

“One of the what?” 

“They’re in almost all the big cities,” Annabeth said distastefully. “They’re 

. mistakes, Percy. Children of nature spirits and gods ... Well, one god in 
particular, usually ... and they don’t always come out right. No one wants them. 
They get tossed aside. They grow up wild on the streets. I don’t know how this 
one found you, but he obviously likes you. We should take him to Chiron, let 
him decide what to do.” 

“But the fire. How-“ 

“He’s a Cyclops.” Annabeth paused, as if she were remembering something 
unpleasant. “They work the forges of the gods. They have to be immune to fire. 
That’s what I was trying to tell you.” 

I was completely shocked. How had I never realized what Tyson was? 

But I didn’t have much time to think about it just then. The whole side of 
the hill was burning. Wounded heroes needed attention. And there were still two 
banged-up bronze bulls to dispose of, which I didn’t figure would fit in our 
normal recycling bins. 

Clarisse came back over and wiped the soot off her forehead. “Jackson, if 
you can stand, get up. We need to carry the wounded back to the Big House, let 
Tantalus know what’s happened.” 

“Tantalus?” I asked. 


“The activities director,” Clarisse said impatiently. 

“Chiron is the activities director. And where’s Argus? He’s head of security. 
He should be here.” 

Clarisse made a sour face. “Argus got fired. You two have been gone too 
long. Things are changing.” 

“But Chiron ... He’s trained kids to fight monsters for over three thousand 
years. He can’t just be gone. What happened?” 

“That happened,” Clarisse snapped. 

She pointed to Thalia’s tree. 

Every camper knew the story behind the tree. Six years ago, Grover, 
Annabeth, and two other demigods named Thalia and Luke had come to Camp 
Half-Blood chased by an army of monsters. When they got cornered on top of 
this hill, Thalia, a daughter of Zeus, had made her last stand here to give her 
friends time to reach safety. As she was dying, her father, Zeus, took pity on her 
and changed her into a pine tree. Her spirit had reinforced the magic borders of 
the camp, protecting it from monsters. The pine had been here ever since, strong 
and healthy. 

But now, its needles were yellow. A huge pile of dead ones littered the base 
of the tree. In the center of the trunk, three feet from the ground, was a puncture 
mark the size of a bullet hole, oozing green sap. 

A sliver of ice ran through my chest. Now I understood why the camp was 
in danger. The magical borders were failing because Thalia’s tree was dying. 

Someone had poisoned it. 


FIVE 


I GET A NEW 


CABIN MATE 


Ever come home and found your room messed up? Like some helpful 
person (hi, Mom) has tried to “clean” it, and suddenly you can’t find anything? 
And even if nothing is missing, you get that creepy feeling like somebody’s been 
looking through your private stuff and dusting everything with lemon furniture 
polish? 

That’s kind of the way I felt seeing Camp Half-Blood again. 

On the surface, things didn’t look all that different. The Big House was still 
there with its blue gabled roof and its wraparound porch. The strawberry fields 
still baked in the sun. The same white-columned Greek buildings were scattered 
around the valley-the amphitheater, the combat arena, the dining pavilion 
overlooking Long Island Sound. And nestled between the woods and the creek 
were the same cabins-a crazy assortment of twelve buildings, each representing a 
different Olympian god. 

But there was an air of danger now. You could tell something was wrong. 
Instead of playing volleyball in the sandpit, counselors and satyrs were 
stockpiling weapons in the tool shed. Dryads armed with bows and arrows talked 
nervously at the edge of the woods. The forest looked sickly, the grass in the 
meadow was pale yellow, and the fire marks on Half-Blood Hill stood out like 
ugly scars. 

Somebody had messed with my favorite place in the world, and I was not 
... well, a happy camper. 

As we made our way to the Big House, I recognized a lot of kids from last 
summer. Nobody stopped to talk. Nobody said, “Welcome back.” Some did 
double takes when they saw Tyson, but most just walked grimly past and carried 
on with their duties-running messages, toting swords to sharpen on the grinding 
wheels. The camp felt like a military school. And believe me, I know. I’ve been 
kicked out of a couple. 

None of that mattered to Tyson. He was absolutely fascinated by everything 
he saw. “Whasthat!” he gasped. 

“The stables for pegasi,” I said. “The winged horses.” 

“Whasthat!” 

“Um ... those are the toilets.” 

“Whasthat!” 

“The cabins for the campers. If they don’t know who your Olympian parent 
is, they put you in the Hermes cabin-that brown one over there-until you’re 


determined. Then, once they know, they put you in your dad or mom’s group.” 

He looked at me in awe. “You ... have a cabin?” 

“Number three.” I pointed to a low gray building made of sea stone. 

“You live with friends in the cabin?” 

“No. No, just me.” I didn’t feel like explaining. The embarrassing truth: I 
was the only one who stayed in that cabin because I wasn’t supposed to be alive. 
The “Big Three” gods-Zeus, Poseidon, and Hades-had made a pact after World 
War II not to have any more children with mortals. We were more powerful than 
regular half-bloods. We were too unpredictable. When we got mad we tended to 
cause problems ... like World War II, for instance. The “Big Three” pact had 
only been broken twice-once when Zeus sired Thalia, once when Poseidon sired 
me. Neither of us should’ve been born. 

Thalia had gotten herself turned into a pine tree when she was twelve. Me 
... well, I was doing my best not to follow her example. I had nightmares about 
what Poseidon might turn me into if I were ever on the verge of death-plankton, 
maybe. Or a floating patch of kelp. 

When we got to the Big House, we found Chiron in his apartment, listening 
to his favorite 1960s lounge music while he packed his saddlebags. I guess I 
should mention-Chiron is a centaur. From the waist up he looks like a regular 
middle-aged guy with curly brown hair and a scraggly beard. From the waist 
down, he’s a white stallion. He can pass for human by compacting his lower half 
into a magic wheelchair. In fact, he’d passed himself off as my Latin teacher 
during my sixth-grade year. But most of the time, if the ceilings are high enough, 
he prefers hanging out in full centaur form. 

As soon as we saw him, Tyson froze. “Pony!” he cried in total rapture. 

Chiron turned, looking offended. “I beg your pardon?” 

Annabeth ran up and hugged him. “Chiron, what’s happening? You’re not 
... leaving?” Her voice was shaky. Chiron was like a second father to her. 

Chiron ruffled her hair and gave her a kindly smile. “Hello, child. And 
Percy, my goodness. You’ve grown over the year!” 

I swallowed. “Clarisse said you were ... you were ...” 

“Fired.” Chiron’s eyes glinted with dark humor. “Ah, well, someone had to 
take the blame. Lord Zeus was most upset. The tree he’d created from the spirit 
of his daughter, poisoned! Mr. D had to punish someone.” 

“Besides himself, you mean,” I growled. Just the thought of the camp 
director, Mr. D, made me angry. 

“But this is crazy!” Annabeth cried. “Chiron, you couldn’t have had 
anything to do with poisoning Thalia’s tree!” 

“Nevertheless,” Chiron sighed, “some in Olympus do not trust me now, 


under the circumstances.” 

“What circumstances?” I asked. 

Chiron’s face darkened. He stuffed a Latin-English dictionary into his 
saddlebag while the Frank Sinatra music oozed from his boom box. 

Tyson was still staring at Chiron in amazement. He whimpered like he 
wanted to pat Chiron’s flank but was afraid to come closer. “Pony?” 

Chiron sniffed. “My dear young Cyclops! I am a centaur.” 

“Chiron,” I said. “What about the tree? What happened?” 

He shook his head sadly. “The poison used on Thalia’s pine is something 
from the Underworld, Percy. Some venom even I have never seen. It must have 
come from a monster quite deep in the pits of Tartarus.” 

“Then we know who’s responsible. Kro-“ 

“Do not invoke the titan lord’s name, Percy. Especially not here, not now.” 

“But last summer he tried to cause a civil war in Olympus! This has to be 
his idea. He’d get Luke to do it, that traitor.” 

“Perhaps,” Chiron said. “But I fear I am being held responsible because I 
did not prevent it and I cannot cure it. The tree has only a few weeks of life left 
unless ...” 

“Unless what?” Annabeth asked. 

“No,” Chiron said. “A foolish thought. The whole valley is feeling the 
shock of the poison. The magical borders are deteriorating. The camp itself is 
dying. Only one source of magic would be strong enough to reverse the poison, 
and it was lost centuries ago.” 

“What is it?” I asked. “We'll go find it!” 

Chiron closed his saddlebag. He pressed the stop button on his boom box. 
Then he turned and rested his hand on my shoulder, looking me straight in the 
eyes. “Percy, you must promise me that you will not act rashly. I told your 
mother I did not want you to come here at all this summer. It’s much too 
dangerous. But now that you are here, stay here. Train hard. Learn to fight. But 
do not leave.” 

“Why?” I asked. “I want to do something! I can’t just let the borders fail. 
The whole camp will be-“ 

“Overrun by monsters,” Chiron said. “Yes, I fear so. But you must not let 
yourself be baited into hasty action! This could be a trap of the titan lord. 
Remember last summer! He almost took your life.” 

It was true, but still, I wanted to help so badly. I also wanted to make 
Kronos pay. I mean, you’d think the titan lord would’ve learned his lesson eons 
ago when he was overthrown by the gods. You’d think getting chopped into a 
million pieces and cast into the darkest part of the Underworld would give him a 


subtle clue that nobody wanted him around. But no. Because he was immortal, 
he was still alive down there in Tartarus-suffering in eternal pain, hungering to 
return and take revenge on Olympus. He couldn’t act on his own, but he was 
great at twisting the minds of mortals and even gods to do his dirty work. 

The poisoning had to be his doing. Who else would be so low as to attack 
Thalia’s tree, the only thing left of a hero who’d given her life to save her 
friends? 

Annabeth was trying hard not to cry. Chiron brushed a tear from her cheek. 
“Stay with Percy, child,” he told her. “Keep him safe. The prophecy-remember 
Tele 

“T-I will.” 

“Um ...” I said. “Would this be the super-dangerous prophecy that has me 
in it, but the gods have forbidden you to tell me about?” 

Nobody answered. 

“Right,” I muttered. “Just checking.” 

“Chiron ...” Annabeth said. “You told me the gods made you immortal only 
so long as you were needed to train heroes. If they dismiss you from camp-“ 

“Swear you will do your best to keep Percy from danger,” he insisted. 
“Swear upon the River Styx.” 

“T-I swear it upon the River Styx,” Annabeth said. 

Thunder rumbled outside. 

“Very well,’ Chiron said. He seemed to relax just a little. “Perhaps my 
name will be cleared and I shall return. Until then, I go to visit my wild kinsmen 
in the Everglades. It’s possible they know of some cure for the poisoned tree that 
I have forgotten. In any event, I will stay in exile until this matter is resolved ... 
one way or another.” 

Annabeth stifled a sob. Chiron patted her shoulder awkwardly. “There, now, 
child. I must entrust your safety to Mr. D and the new activities director. We 
must hope ... well, perhaps they won’t destroy the camp quite as quickly as I 
fear.” 

“Who is this Tantalus guy, anyway?” I demanded. “Where does he get off 
taking your job?” 

A conch horn blew across the valley. I hadn’t realized how late it was. It 
was time for the campers to assemble for dinner. 

“Go,” Chiron said. “You will meet him at the pavilion. I will contact your 
mother, Percy, and let her know you’re safe. No doubt she’ll be worried by now. 
Just remember my warning! You are in grave danger. Do not think for a moment 
that the titan lord has forgotten you!” 

With that, he clopped out of the apartment and down the hall, Tyson calling 


after him, “Pony! Don’t go!” 

I realized I’d forgotten to tell Chiron about my dream of Grover. Now it 
was too late. The best teacher I’d ever had was gone, maybe for good. 

Tyson started bawling almost as bad as Annabeth. I tried to tell them that 
things would be okay, but I didn’t believe it. 

The sun was setting behind the dining pavilion as the campers came up 
from their cabins. We stood in the shadow of a marble column and watched them 
file in. Annabeth was still pretty shaken up, but she promised she’d talk to us 
later. Then she went off to join her siblings from the Athena cabin-a dozen boys 
and girls with blond hair and gray eyes like hers. Annabeth wasn’t the oldest, but 
she’d been at camp more summers than just about anybody. You could tell that 
by looking at her camp necklace-one bead for every summer, and Annabeth had 
six. No one questioned her right to lead the line. 

Next came Clarisse, leading the Ares cabin. She had one arm in a sling and 
a nasty-looking gash on her cheek, but otherwise her encounter with the bronze 
bulls didn’t seem to have fazed her. Someone had taped a piece of paper to her 
back that said, YOU MOO, GIRL! But nobody in her cabin was bothering to tell 
her about it. 

After the Ares kids came the Hephaestus cabin-six guys led by Charles 
Beckendorf, a big fifteen-year-old African American kid. He had hands the size 
of catchers’ mitts and a face that was hard and squinty from looking into a 
blacksmiths forge all day. He was nice enough once you got to know him, but no 
one ever called him Charlie or Chuck or Charles. Most just called him 
Beckendorf. Rumor was he could make anything. Give him a chunk of metal and 
he could create a razor-sharp sword or a robotic warrior or a singing birdbath for 
your grandmother’s garden. Whatever you wanted. 

The other cabins filed in: Demeter, Apollo, Aphrodite, Dionysus. Naiads 
came up from the canoe lake. Dryads melted out of the trees. From the meadow 
came a dozen satyrs, who reminded me painfully of Grover. 

I’d always had a soft spot for the satyrs. When they were at camp, they had 
to do all kinds of odd jobs for Mr. D, the director, but their most important work 
was out in the real world. They were the camp’s seekers. They went undercover 
into schools all over the world, looking for potential half-bloods and escorting 
them back to camp. That’s how I’d met Grover. He had been the first one to 
recognize I was a demigod. 

After the satyrs filed in to dinner, the Hermes cabin brought up the rear. 
They were always the biggest cabin. Last summer, it had been led by Luke, the 
guy who’d fought with Thalia and Annabeth on top of Half-Blood Hill. For a 
while, before Poseidon had claimed me, I’d lodged in the Hermes cabin. Luke 


had befriended me ... and then he’d tried to kill me. 

Now the Hermes cabin was led by Travis and Connor Stoll. They weren’t 
twins, but they looked so much alike it didn’t matter. I could never remember 
which one was older. They were both tall and skinny, with mops of brown hair 
that hung in their eyes. They wore orange CAMP HALF-BLOOD T-shirts 
untucked over baggy shorts, and they had those elfish features all Hermes’s kids 
had: upturned eyebrows, sarcastic smiles, a gleam in their eyes whenever they 
looked at you-like they were about to drop a firecracker down your shirt. I’d 
always thought it was funny that the god of thieves would have kids with the last 
name “Stoll,” but the only time I mentioned it to Travis and Connor, they both 
stared at me blankly like they didn’t get the joke. 

As soon as the last campers had filed in, I led Tyson into the middle of the 
pavilion. Conversations faltered. Heads turned. “Who invited that?” somebody at 
the Apollo table murmured. 

I glared in their direction, but I couldn’t figure out who’d spoken. 

From the head table a familiar voice drawled, “Well, well, if it isn’t Peter 
Johnson. My millennium is complete.” 

I gritted my teeth. “Percy Jackson ... sir.” 

Mr. D sipped his Diet Coke. “Yes. Well, as you young people say these 
days: Whatever.” 

He was wearing his usual leopard-pattern Hawaiian shirt, walking shorts, 
and tennis shoes with black socks. With his pudgy belly and his blotchy red face, 
he looked like a Las Vegas tourist who’d stayed up too late in the casinos. 
Behind him, a nervous-looking satyr was peeling the skins off grapes and 
handing them to Mr. D one at a time. 

Mr. D’s real name is Dionysus. The god of wine. Zeus appointed him 
director of Camp Half-Blood to dry out for a hundred years-a punishment for 
chasing some off-limits wood nymph. 

Next to him, where Chiron usually sat (or stood, in centaur form), was 
someone I’d never seen before-a pale, horribly thin man in a threadbare orange 
prisoner’s jumpsuit. The number over his pocket read 0001. He had blue 
shadows under his eyes, dirty fingernails, and badly cut gray hair, like his last 
haircut had been done with a weed whacker. He stared at me; his eyes made me 
nervous. He looked ... fractured. Angry and frustrated and hungry all at the 
same time. 

“This boy,” Dionysus told him, “you need to watch. Poseidon’s child, you 
know.” 

“Ah!” the prisoner said. “That one.” 

His tone made it obvious that he and Dionysus had already discussed me at 


length. 

“T am Tantalus,” the prisoner said, smiling coldly. “On special assignment 
here until, well, until my Lord Dionysus decides otherwise. And you, Perseus 
Jackson, I do expect you to refrain from causing any more trouble.” 

“Trouble?” I demanded. 

Dionysus snapped his fingers. A newspaper appeared on the table-the front 
page of today’s New York Post, There was my yearbook picture from 
Meriwether Prep. It was hard for me to make out the headline, but I had a pretty 
good guess what it said. Something like: Thirteen-Year-Old Lunatic Torches 
Gymnasium. 

“Yes, trouble,” Tantalus said with satisfaction. “You caused plenty of it last 
summer, I understand.” 

I was too mad to speak. Like it was my fault the gods had almost gotten 
into a civil war? 

A satyr inched forward nervously and set a plate of barbecue in front of 
Tantalus. The new activities director licked his lips. He looked at his empty 
goblet and said, “Root beer. Barq’s special stock. 1967.” 

The glass filled itself with foamy soda. Tantalus stretched out his hand 
hesitantly, as if he were afraid the goblet was hot. 

“Go on, then, old fellow,” Dionysus said, a strange sparkle in his eyes. 
“Perhaps now it will work.” 

Tantalus grabbed for the glass, but it scooted away before he could touch it. 
A few drops of root beer spilled, and Tantalus tried to dab them up with his 
fingers, but the drops rolled away like quicksilver before he could touch them. 
He growled and turned toward the plate of barbecue. He picked up a fork and 
tried to stab a piece of brisket, but the plate skittered down the table and flew off 
the end, straight into the coals of the brazier. 

“Blast!” Tantalus muttered. 

“Ah, well,’ Dionysus said, his voice dripping with false sympathy. 
“Perhaps a few more days. Believe me, old chap, working at this camp will be 
torture enough. I’m sure your old curse will fade eventually.” 

“Eventually,” muttered Tantalus, staring at Dionysus’s Diet Coke. “Do you 
have any idea how dry one’s throat gets after three thousand years?” 

“You’re that spirit from the Fields of Punishment,” I said. “The one who 
stands in the lake with the fruit tree hanging over you, but you can’t eat or 
drink.” 

Tantalus sneered at me. “A real scholar, aren’t you, boy?” 

“You must’ve done something really horrible when you were alive,” I said, 
mildly impressed. “What was it?” 


Tantalus’s eyes narrowed. Behind him, the satyrs were shaking their heads 
vigorously, trying to warn me. 

“T’ll be watching you, Percy Jackson,” Tantalus said. “I don’t want any 
problems at my camp.” 

“Your camp has problems already ... sir. 

“Oh, go sit down, Johnson,” Dionysus sighed. “I believe that table over 
there is yours-the one where no one else ever wants to sit.” 

My face was burning, but I knew better than to talk back. Dionysus was an 
overgrown brat, but he was an immortal, superpowerful overgrown brat. I said, 
“Come on, Tyson.” 

“Oh, no,” Tantalus said. “The monster stays here. We must decide what to 
do with it.” 

“Him,” I snapped. “His name is Tyson.” 

The new activities director raised an eyebrow. 

“Tyson saved the camp,” I insisted. “He pounded those bronze bulls. 
Otherwise they would’ve burned down this whole place.” 

“Yes,” Tantalus sighed, “and what a pity that would’ve been.” 

Dionysus snickered. 

“Leave us,” Tantalus ordered, “while we decide this creature’s fate.” 

Tyson looked at me with fear in his one big eye, but I knew I couldn’t 
disobey a direct order from the camp directors. Not openly, anyway. 

“T’ll be right over here, big guy,” I promised. “Don’t worry. We’ll find you 
a good place to sleep tonight.” 

Tyson nodded. “I believe you. You are my friend.” 

Which made me feel a whole lot guiltier. 

I trudged over to the Poseidon table and slumped onto the bench. A wood 
nymph brought me a plate of Olympian olive-and-pepperoni pizza, but I wasn’t 
hungry. I’d been almost killed twice today. I’d managed to end my school year 
with a complete disaster. Camp Half-Blood was in serious trouble and Chiron 
had told me not to do anything about it. 

I didn’t feel very thankful, but I took my dinner, as was customary, up to the 
bronze brazier and scraped part of it into the flames. 

“Poseidon,” I murmured, “accept my offering.” 

And send me some help while you’re at it, I prayed silently. Please. 

The smoke from the burning pizza changed into something fragrant-the 
smell of a clean sea breeze with wild-flowers mixed in-but I had no idea if that 
meant my father was really listening. 

I went back to my seat. I didn’t think things could get much worse. But then 
Tantalus had one of the satyrs blow the conch horn to get our attention for 


+” 


announcements. 

“Yes, well,” Tantalus said, once the talking had died down. “Another fine 
meal! Or so I am told.” As he spoke, he inched his hand toward his refilled 
dinner plate, as if maybe the food wouldn’t notice what he was doing, but it did. 
It shot away down the table as soon as he got within six inches. 

“And here on my first day of authority,” he continued, “I’d like to say what 
a pleasant form of punishment it is to be here. Over the course of the summer, I 
hope to torture, er, interact with each and every one of you children. You all look 
good enough to eat.” 

Dionysus clapped politely, leading to some halfhearted applause from the 
satyrs. Tyson was still standing at the head table, looking uncomfortable, but 
every time he tried to scoot out of the limelight, Tantalus pulled him back. 

“And now some changes!” Tantalus gave the campers a crooked smile. “We 
are reinstituting the chariot races!” 

Murmuring broke out at all the tables-excitement, fear, disbelief. 

“Now I know,” Tantalus continued, raising his voice, “that these races were 
discontinued some years ago due to, ah, technical problems.” 

“Three deaths and twenty-six mutilations,” someone at the Apollo table 
called. 

“Yes, yes!” Tantalus said. “But I know that you will all join me in 
welcoming the return of this camp tradition. Golden laurels will go to the 
winning charioteers each month. Teams may register in the morning! The first 
race will be held in three days time. We will release you from most of your 
regular activities to prepare your chariots and choose your horses. Oh, and did I 
mention, the victorious team’s cabin will have no chores for the month in which 
they win?” 

An explosion of excited conversation-no KP for a whole month? No stable 
cleaning? Was he serious? 

Then the last person I expected to object did so. 

“But, sir!” Clarisse said. She looked nervous, but she stood up to speak 
from the Ares table. Some of the campers snickered when they saw the YOU 
MOO, GIRL! sign on her back. “What about patrol duty? I mean, if we drop 
everything to ready our chariots-“ 

“Ah, the hero of the day,” Tantalus exclaimed. “Brave Clarisse, who single- 
handedly bested the bronze bulls!” 

Clarisse blinked, then blushed. “Um, I didn’t-“ 

“And modest, too.” Tantalus grinned. “Not to worry, my dear! This is a 
summer camp. We are here to enjoy ourselves, yes?” 

“But the tree-“ 


“And now,” Tantalus said, as several of Clarisse’s cabin mates pulled her 
back into her seat, “before we proceed to the campfire and sing-along, one slight 
housekeeping issue. Percy Jackson and Annabeth Chase have seen fit, for some 
reason, to bring this here.” Tantalus waved a hand toward Tyson. 

Uneasy murmuring spread among the campers. A lot of sideways looks at 
me. I wanted to kill Tantalus. 

“Now, of course,” he said, “Cyclopes have a reputation for being 
bloodthirsty monsters with a very small brain capacity. Under normal 
circumstances, I would release this beast into the woods and have you hunt it 
down with torches and pointed sticks. But who knows? Perhaps this Cyclops is 
not as horrible as most of its brethren. Until it proves worthy of destruction, we 
need a place to keep it! I’ve thought about the stables, but that will make the 
horses nervous. Hermes’s cabin, possibly?” 

Silence at the Hermes table. Travis and Connor Stoll developed a sudden 
interest in the tablecloth. I couldn’t blame them. The Hermes cabin was always 
full to bursting. There was no way they could take in a six-foot-three Cyclops. 

“Come now,” Tantalus chided. “The monster may be able to do some 
menial chores. Any suggestions as to where such a beast should be kenneled?” 

Suddenly everybody gasped. 

Tantalus scooted away from Tyson in surprise. All I could do was stare in 
disbelief at the brilliant green light that was about to change my life-a dazzling 
holographic image that had appeared above Tyson’s head. 

With a sickening twist in my stomach, I remembered what Annabeth had 
said about Cyclopes, They’re the children of nature spirits and gods ... Well, one 
god in particular, usually ... 

Swirling over Tyson was a glowing green trident-the same symbol that had 
appeared above me the day Poseidon had claimed me as his son. 

There was a moment of awed silence. 

Being claimed was a rare event. Some campers waited in vain for it their 
whole lives. When I’d been claimed by Poseidon last summer, everyone had 
reverently knelt. But now, they followed Tantalus’s lead, and Tantalus roared 
with laughter. “Well! I think we know where to put the beast now. By the gods, I 
can see the family resemblance!” 

Everybody laughed except Annabeth and a few of my other friends. 

Tyson didn’t seem to notice. He was too mystified, trying to swat the 
glowing trident that was now fading over his head. He was too innocent to 
understand how much they were making fun of him, how cruel people were. 

But I got it. 

I had a new cabin mate. I had a monster for a half-brother. 


SIX 


DEMON PIGEONS 


ATTACK 


The next few days were torture, just like Tantalus wanted. 

First there was Tyson moving into the Poseidon cabin, giggling to himself 
every fifteen seconds and saying, “Percy is my brother?” like he’d just won the 
lottery. 

“Aw, Tyson,” I’d say. “It’s not that simple.” 

But there was no explaining it to him. He was in heaven. And me ... as 
much as I liked the big guy, I couldn’t help feeling embarrassed. Ashamed. 
There, I said it. 

My father, the all-powerful Poseidon, had gotten moony-eyed for some 
nature spirit, and Tyson had been the result. I mean, I’d read the myths about 
Cyclopes. I even remembered that they were often Poseidon’s children. But I’d 
never really processed that this made them my ... family. Until I had Tyson 
living with me in the next bunk. 

And then there were the comments from the other campers. Suddenly, I 
wasn’t Percy Jackson, the cool guy who’d retrieved Zeus’s lightning bolt last 
summer. Now I was Percy Jackson, the poor schmuck with the ugly monster for 
a brother. 

“He’s not my real brother!” I protested whenever Tyson wasn’t around. 
“He’s more like a half-brother on the monstrous side of the family. Like ... a 
half-brother twice removed, or something.” 

Nobody bought it. 

I admit-I was angry at my dad. I felt like being his son was now a joke. 

Annabeth tried to make me feel better. She suggested we team up for the 
chariot race to take our minds off our problems. Don’t get me wrong-we both 
hated Tantalus and we were worried sick about camp-but we didn’t know what 
to do about it. Until we could come up with some brilliant plan to save Thalia’s 
tree, we figured we might as well go along with the races. After all, Annabeth’s 
mom, Athena, had invented the chariot, and my dad had created horses. Together 
we would own that track. 

One morning Annabeth and I were sitting by the canoe lake sketching 
chariot designs when some jokers from Aphrodite’s cabin walked by and asked 
me if I needed to borrow some eyeliner for my eye ... “Oh sorry, eyes.” 

As they walked away laughing, Annabeth grumbled, “Just ignore them, 
Percy. It isn’t your fault you have a monster for a brother.” 

“He’s not my brother!” I snapped. “And he’s not a monster, either!” 


Annabeth raised her eyebrows. “Hey, don’t get mad at me! And technically, 
he is a monster.” 

“Well you gave him permission to enter the camp.” 

“Because it was the only way to save your life! I mean ... I’m sorry, Percy, 
I didn’t expect Poseidon to claim him. Cyclopes are the most deceitful, 
treacherous-“ 

“He is not! What have you got against Cyclopes, any-way? 

Annabeth’s ears turned pink. I got the feeling there was something she 
wasn’t telling me-something bad. 

“Just forget it,” she said. “Now, the axle for this chariot-“ 

“You’re treating him like he’s this horrible thing,” I said. “He saved my 
life.” 

Annabeth threw down her pencil and stood. “Then maybe you should 
design a chariot with him.” 

“Maybe I should.” 

“Fine!” 

“Fine!” 

She stormed off and left me feeling even worse than before. 

The next couple of days, I tried to keep my mind off my problems. 

Silena Beauregard, one of the nicer girls from Aphrodite’s cabin, gave me 
my first riding lesson on a pegasus. She explained that there was only one 
immortal winged horse named Pegasus, who still wandered free somewhere in 
the skies, but over the eons he’d sired a lot of children, none quite so fast or 
heroic, but all named after the first and greatest. 

Being the son of the sea god, I never liked going into the air. My dad had 
this rivalry with Zeus, so I tried to stay out of the lord of the sky’s domain as 
much as possible. But riding a winged horse felt different. It didn’t make me 
nearly as nervous as being in an airplane. Maybe that was because my dad had 
created horses out of sea foam, so the pegasi were sort of ... neutral territory. I 
could understand their thoughts. I wasn’t surprised when my pegasus went 
galloping over the treetops or chased a flock of seagulls into a cloud. 

The problem was that Tyson wanted to ride the “chicken ponies,” too, but 
the pegasi got skittish whenever he approached. I told them telepathically that 
Tyson wouldn’t hurt them, but they didn’t seem to believe me. That made Tyson 
cry. 

The only person at camp who had no problem with Tyson was Beckendorf 
from the Hephaestus cabin. The blacksmith god had always worked with 
Cyclopes in his forges, so Beckendorf took Tyson down to the armory to teach 
him metalworking. He said he’d have Tyson crafting magic items like a master 


in no time. 

After lunch, I worked out in the arena with Apollo’s cabin. Swordplay had 
always been my strength. People said I was better at it than any camper in the 
last hundred years, except maybe Luke. People always compared me to Luke. 

I thrashed the Apollo guys easily. I should’ve been testing myself against 
the Ares and Athena cabins, since they had the best sword fighters, but I didn’t 
get along with Clarisse and her siblings, and after my argument with Annabeth, I 
just didn’t want to see her. 

I went to archery class, even though I was terrible at it, and it wasn’t the 
same without Chiron teaching. In arts and crafts, I started a marble bust of 
Poseidon, but it started looking like Sylvester Stallone, so I ditched it. I scaled 
the climbing wall in full lava-and-earthquake mode. And in the evenings, I did 
border patrol. Even though Tantalus had insisted we forget trying to protect the 
camp, some of the campers had quietly kept it up, working out a schedule during 
our free times. 

I sat at the top of Half-Blood Hill and watched the dryads come and go, 
singing to the dying pine tree. Satyrs brought their reed pipes and played nature 
magic songs, and for a while the pine needles seemed to get fuller. The flowers 
on the hill smelled a little sweeter and the grass looked greener. But as soon as 
the music stopped, the sickness crept back into the air. The whole hill seemed to 
be infected, dying from the poison that had sunk into the tree’s roots. The longer 
I sat there, the angrier I got. 

Luke had done this. I remembered his sly smile, the dragon-claw scar 
across his face. He’d pretended to be my friend, and the whole time he’d been 
Kronos’s number-one servant. 

I opened the palm of my hand. The scar Luke had given me last summer 
was fading, but I could still see it-a white asterisk-shaped wound where his pit 
scorpion had stung me. 

I thought about what Luke had told me right before he’d tried to kill me: 
Good-bye, Percy. There is a new Golden Age coming. You won’t be part of it. 

ok 

At night, I had more dreams of Grover. Sometimes, I just heard snatches of 
his voice. Once, I heard him say: It’s here. Another time: He likes sheep. 

I thought about telling Annabeth about my dreams, but I would’ve felt 
stupid. I mean, He likes sheep? She would’ve thought I was crazy. 

The night before the race, Tyson and I finished our chariot. It was wicked 
cool. Tyson had made the metal parts in the armory’s forges. I’d sanded the 
wood and put the carriage together. It was blue and white, with wave designs on 
the sides and a trident painted on the front. After all that work, it seemed only 


fair that Tyson would ride shotgun with me, though I knew the horses wouldn’t 
like it, and Tyson’s extra weight would slow us down. 

As we were turing in for bed, Tyson said, “You are mad?” 

I realized I’d been scowling. “Nah. I’m not mad.” 

He lay down in his bunk and was quiet in the dark. His body was way too 
long for his bed. When he pulled up the covers, his feet stuck out the bottom. “I 
am a monster.” 

“Don’t say that.” 

“Tt is okay. I will be a good monster. Then you will not have to be mad.” 

I didn’t know what to say. I stared at the ceiling and felt like I was dying 
slowly, right along with Thalia’s tree. 

“Tt’s just... I never had a half-brother before.” I tried to keep my voice from 
cracking. “It’s really different for me. And I’m worried about the camp. And 
another friend of mine, Grover ... he might be in trouble. I keep feeling like I 
should be doing something to help, but I don’t know what.” 

Tyson said nothing. 

“T’m sorry,” I told him. “It’s not your fault. I’m mad at Poseidon. I feel like 
he’s trying to embarrass me, like he’s trying to compare us or something, and I 
don’t understand why.” 

I heard a deep rumbling sound. Tyson was snoring. 

I sighed. “Good night, big guy.” 

And I closed my eyes, too. 

In my dream, Grover was wearing a wedding dress. 

It didn’t fit him very well. The gown was too long and the hem was caked 
with dried mud. The neckline kept falling off his shoulders. A tattered veil 
covered his face. 

He was standing in a dank cave, lit only by torches. There was a cot in one 
comer and an old-fashioned loom in the other, a length of white cloth half woven 
on the frame. And he was staring right at me, like I was a TV program he’d been 
waiting for. “Thank the gods!” he yelped. “Can you hear me?” 

My dream-self was slow to respond. I was still looking around, taking in 
the stalactite ceiling, the stench of sheep and goats, the growling and grumbling 
and bleating sounds that seemed to echo from behind a refrigerator-sized 
boulder, which was blocking the room’s only exit, as if there were a much larger 
cavern beyond it. 

“Percy?” Grover said. “Please, I don’t have the strength to project any 
better. You have to hear me!” 

“T hear you,” I said. “Grover, what’s going on?” 

From behind the boulder, a monstrous voice yelled, “Honeypie! Are you 


done yet?” 

Grover flinched. He called out in falsetto, “Not quite, dearest! A few more 
days!” 

“Bah! Hasn’t it been two weeks yet?” 

“N-no, dearest. Just five days. That leaves twelve more to go.” 

The monster was silent, maybe trying to do the math. He must’ve been 
worse at arithmetic than I was, because he said, “All right, but hurry! I want to 
SEEEFE under that veil, heh-heh-heh.” 

Grover turned back to me. “You have to help me! No time! I’m stuck in this 
cave. On an island in the sea.” 

“Where?” 

“T don’t know exactly! I went to Florida and turned left.” 

“What? How did you-“ 

“Tt’s a trap!” Grover said. “It’s the reason no satyr has ever returned from 
this quest. He’s a shepherd, Percy! And he has it. Its nature magic is so powerful 
it smells just like the great god Pan! The satyrs come here thinking they’ve 
found Pan, and they get trapped and eaten by Polyphemus!” 

“Poly-who?” 

“The Cyclops!” Grover said, exasperated. “I almost got away. I made it all 
the way to St. Augustine.” 

“But he followed you,” I said, remembering my first dream. “And trapped 
you in a bridal boutique.” 

“That’s right,” Grover said. “My first empathy link must’ve worked then. 
Look, this bridal dress is the only thing keeping me alive. He thinks I smell 
good, but I told him it was just goat-scented perfume. Thank goodness he can’t 
see very well. His eye is still half blind from the last time somebody poked it 
out. But soon he’!I realize what I am. He’s only giving me two weeks to finish 
the bridal train, and he’s getting impatient!” 

“Wait a minute. This Cyclops thinks you’re-“ 

“Yes!” Grover wailed. “He thinks I’m a lady Cyclops and he wants to marry 
me!” 

Under different circumstances, I might’ve busted out laughing, but Grover’s 
voice was deadly serious. He was shaking with fear. 

“T’]l come rescue you,” I promised. “Where are you?” 

“The Sea of Monsters, of course!” 

“The sea of what?” 

“T told you! I don’t know exactly where! And look, Percy ... urn, I’m really 
sorry about this, but this empathy link ... well, I had no choice. Our emotions are 
connected now. If I die ...” 


“Don’t tell me, I’ll die too.” 

“Oh, well, perhaps not. You might live for years in a vegetative state. But, 
uh, it would be a lot better if you got me out of here.” 

“Honeypie!” the monster bellowed. “Dinnertime! Yummy yummy sheep 
meat!” 

Grover whimpered. “I have to go. Hurry!” 

“Wait! You said ‘it’? was here. What?” 

But Grover’s voice was already growing fainter. “Sweet dreams. Don’t let 
me die!” 

The dream faded and I woke with a start. It was early morning. Tyson was 
staring down at me, his one big brown eye full of concern. 

“Are you okay?” he asked. 

His voice sent a chill down my back, because he sounded almost exactly 
like the monster I’d heard in my dream. 

The morning of the race was hot and humid. Fog lay low on the ground like 
sauna steam. Millions of birds were roosting in the trees-fat gray-and-white 
pigeons, except they didn’t coo like regular pigeons. They made this annoying 
metallic screeching sound that reminded me of submarine radar. 

The racetrack had been built in a grassy field between the archery range and 
the woods. Hephaestus’s cabin had used the bronze bulls, which were 
completely tame since they’d had their heads smashed in, to plow an oval track 
in a matter of minutes. 

There were rows of stone steps for the spectators-Tantalus, the satyrs, a few 
dryads, and all of the campers who weren’t participating. Mr. D didn’t show. He 
never got up before ten o’clock. 

“Right!” Tantalus announced as the teams began to assemble. A naiad had 
brought him a big platter of pastries, and as Tantalus spoke, his right hand 
chased a chocolate eclair across the judge’s table. “You all know the rules. A 
quarter-mile track. Twice around to win. Two horses per chariot. Each team will 
consist of a driver and a fighter. Weapons are allowed. Dirty tricks are expected. 
But try not to kill anybody!” Tantalus smiled at us like we were all naughty 
children. “Any killing will result in harsh punishment. No s’mores at the 
campfire for a week! Now ready your chariots!” 

Beckendorf led the Hephaestus team onto the track. They had a sweet ride 
made of bronze and iron-even the horses, which were magical automatons like 
the Colchis bulls. I had no doubt that their chariot had all kinds of mechanical 
traps and more fancy options than a fully loaded Maserati. 

The Ares chariot was bloodred, and pulled by two grisly horse skeletons. 
Clarisse climbed aboard with a batch of javelins, spiked balls, caltrops, and a 


bunch of other nasty toys. 

Apollo’s chariot was trim and graceful and completely gold, pulled by two 
beautiful palominos. Their fighter was armed with a bow, though he had 
promised not to shoot regular pointed arrows at the opposing drivers. 

Hermes’s chariot was green and kind of old-looking, as if it hadn’t been out 
of the garage in years. It didn’t look like anything special, but it was manned by 
the Stoll brothers, and I shuddered to think what dirty tricks they’d schemed up. 

That left two chariots: one driven by Annabeth, and the other by me. 

Before the race began, I tried to approach Annabeth and tell her about my 
dream. 

She perked up when I mentioned Grover, but when I told her what he’d 
said, she seemed to get distant again, suspicious. 

“You’re trying to distract me,” she decided. 

“What? No I’m not!” 

“Oh, right! Like Grover would just happen to stumble across the one thing 
that could save the camp.” 

“What do you mean?” 

She rolled her eyes. “Go back to your chariot, Percy.” 

“I’m not making this up. He’s in trouble, Annabeth.” 

She hesitated. I could tell she was trying to decide whether or not to trust 
me. Despite our occasional fights, we’d been through a lot together. And I knew 
she would never want anything bad to happen to Grover. 

“Percy, an empathy link is so hard to do. I mean, it’s more likely you really 
were dreaming.” 

“The Oracle,” I said. “We could consult the Oracle.” 

Annabeth frowned. 

Last summer, before my quest, I’d visited the strange spirit that lived in the 
Big House attic and it had given me a prophecy that came true in ways I’d never 
expected. The experience had freaked me out for months. Annabeth knew I’d 
never suggest going back there if I wasn’t completely serious. 

Before she could answer, the conch horn sounded. 

“Charioteers!” Tantalus called. “To your mark!” 

“We’ll talk later,” Annabeth told me, “after I win.” 

As I was walking back to my own chariot, I noticed how many more 
pigeons were in the trees now-screeching like crazy, making the whole forest 
rustle. Nobody else seemed to be paying them much attention, but they made me 
nervous. Their beaks glinted strangely. Their eyes seemed shinier than regular 
birds. 

Tyson was having trouble getting our horses under control. I had to talk to 


them a long time before they would settle down. 

He’s a monster, lord! they complained to me. 

He’s a son of Poseidon, I told them. Just like ... well, just like me. 

No! they insisted. Monster! Horse-eater! Not trusted! 

I’ll give you sugar cubes at the end of the race, I said. 

Sugar cubes? 

Very big sugar cubes. And apples. Did I mention the apples? 

Finally they agreed to let me harness them. 

Now, if you’ve never seen a Greek chariot, it’s built for speed, not safety or 
comfort. It’s basically a wooden basket, open at the back, mounted on an axle 
between two wheels. The driver stands up the whole time, and you can feel 
every bump in the road. The carriage is made of such light wood that if you wipe 
out making the hairpin turns at either end of the track, you’ll probably tip over 
and crush both the chariot and yourself. It’s an even better rush than 
skateboarding. 

I took the reins and maneuvered the chariot to the starting line. I gave Tyson 
a ten-foot pole and told him that his job was to push the other chariots away if 
they got too close, and to deflect anything they might try to throw at us. 

“No hitting ponies with the stick,” he insisted. 

“No,” I agreed. “Or people, either, if you can help it. We’re going to run a 
clean race. Just keep the distractions away and let me concentrate on driving.” 

“We will win.’” He beamed. 

We are so going to lose, I thought to myself, but I bad to try. I wanted to 
show the others ... well, I wasn’t sure what, exactly. That Tyson wasn’t such a 
bad guy? That I wasn’t ashamed of being seen with him in public? Maybe that 
they hadn’t hurt me with all their jokes and name-calling? 

As the chariots lined up, more shiny-eyed pigeons gathered in the woods. 
They were screeching so loudly the campers in the stands were starting to take 
notice, glancing nervously at the trees, which shivered under the weight of the 
birds. Tantalus didn’t look concerned, but he did have to speak up to be heard 
over the noise. 

“Charioteers!” he shouted. “Attend your mark!” 

He waved his hand and the starting signal dropped. The chariots roared to 
life. Hooves thundered against the dirt. The crowd cheered. 

Almost immediately there was a loud nasty crack! I looked back in time to 
see the Apollo chariot flip over. The Hermes chariot had rammed into it-maybe 
by mistake, maybe not. The riders were thrown free, but their panicked horses 
dragged the golden chariot diagonally across the track. The Hermes team, Travis 
and Connor Stoll, were laughing at their good luck, but not for long. The Apollo 


horses crashed into theirs, and the Hermes chariot flipped too, leaving a pile of 
broken wood and four rearing horses in the dust. 

Two chariots down in the first twenty feet. I loved this sport. 

I turned my attention back to the front. We were making good time, pulling 
ahead of Ares, but Annabeth’s chariot was way ahead of us. She was already 
making her turn around the first post, her javelin man grinning and waving at us, 
shouting: “See ya!” 

The Hephaestus chariot was starting to gain on us, too. 

Beckendorf pressed a button, and a panel slid open on the side of his 
chariot. 

“Sorry, Percy!” he yelled. Three sets of balls and chains shot straight 
toward our wheels. They would’ve wrecked us completely if Tyson hadn’t 
whacked them aside with a quick swipe of his pole. He gave the Hephaestus 
chariot a good shove and sent them skittering sideways while we pulled ahead. 

“Nice work, Tyson!” I yelled. 

“Birds!” he cried. 

“What?” 

We were whipping along so fast it was hard to hear or see anything, but 
Tyson pointed toward the woods and I saw what he was worried about. The 
pigeons had risen from the trees. They were spiraling like a huge tornado, 
heading toward the track. 

No big deal, I told myself. They’re just pigeons. 

I tried to concentrate on the race. 

We made our first turn, the wheels creaking under us, the chariot 
threatening to tip, but we were now only ten feet behind Annabeth. If I could just 
get a little closer, Tyson could use his pole.... 

Annabeth’s fighter wasn’t smiling now. He pulled a javelin from his 
collection and took aim at me. He was about to throw when we heard the 
screaming. 

The pigeons were swarming-thousands of them dive-bombing the 
spectators in the stands, attacking the other chariots. Beckendorf was mobbed. 
His fighter tried to bat the birds away but he couldn’t see anything. The chariot 
veered off course and plowed through the strawberry fields, the mechanical 
horses steaming. 

In the Ares chariot, Clarisse barked an order to her fighter, who quickly 
threw a screen of camouflage netting over their basket. The birds swarmed 
around it, pecking and clawing at the fighter’s hands as he tried to hold up the 
net, but Clarisse just gritted her teeth and kept driving. Her skeletal horses 
seemed immune to the distraction. The pigeons pecked uselessly at their empty 


eye sockets and flew through their rib cages, but the stallions kept right on 
running. 

The spectators weren’t so lucky. The birds were slashing at any bit of 
exposed flesh, driving everyone into a panic. Now that the birds were closer, it 
was Clear they weren’t normal pigeons. Their eyes were beady and evil-looking. 
Their beaks were made of bronze, and judging from the yelps of the campers, 
they must’ve been razor sharp. 

“Stymphalian birds!” Annabeth yelled. She slowed down and pulled her 
chariot alongside mine. “They’Il strip everyone to bones if we don’t drive them 
away!” 

“Tyson,” I said, “we’re turning around!” 

“Going the wrong way?” he asked. 

“Always,” I grumbled, but I steered the chariot toward the stands. 

Annabeth rode right next to me. She shouted, “Heroes, to arms!” But I 
wasn’t sure anyone could hear her over the screeching of the birds and the 
general chaos. 

I held my reins in one hand and managed to draw Riptide as a wave of birds 
dived at my face, their metal beaks snapping. I slashed them out of the air and 
they exploded into dust and feathers, but there were still millions of them left. 
One nailed me in the back end and I almost jumped straight out of the chariot. 

Annabeth wasn’t having much better luck. The closer we got to the stands, 
the thicker the cloud of birds became. 

Some of the spectators were trying to fight back. The Athena campers were 
calling for shields. The archers from Apollo’s cabin brought out their bows and 
arrows, ready to slay the menace, but with so many campers mixed in with the 
birds, it wasn’t safe to shoot. 

“Too many!” I yelled to Annabeth. “How do you get rid of them?” 

She stabbed at a pigeon with her knife. “Hercules used noise! Brass bells! 
He scared them away with the most horrible sound he could-“ 

Her eyes got wide. “Percy ... Chiron’s collection!” 

I understood instantly. “You think it’1l work?” 

She handed her fighter the reins and leaped from her chariot into mine like 
it was the easiest thing in the world. “To the Big House! It’s our only chance!” 

Clarisse has just pulled across the finish line, completely unopposed, and 
seemed to notice for the first time how serious the bird problem was. 

When she saw us driving away, she yelled, “You’re running? The fight is 
here, cowards!” She drew her sword and charged for the stands. 

I urged our horses into a gallop. The chariot rumbled through the strawberry 
fields, across the volleyball pit, and lurched to a halt in front of the Big House. 


Annabeth and I ran inside, tearing down the hallway to Chiron’s apartment. 

His boom box was still on his nightstand. So were his favorite CDs. I 
grabbed the most repulsive one I could find, Annabeth snatched the boom box, 
and together we ran back outside. 

Down at the track, the chariots were in flames. Wounded campers ran in 
every direction, with birds shredding their clothes and pulling out their hair, 
while Tantalus chased breakfast pastries around the stands, every once in a while 
yelling, “Everything’s under control! Not to worry.’” 

We pulled up to the finish line. Annabeth got the boom box ready. I prayed 
the batteries weren’t dead. 

I pressed PLAY and started up Chiron’s favorite-the All-Time Greatest Hits 
of Dean Martin. Suddenly the air was filled with violins and a bunch of guys 
moaning in Italian. 

The demon pigeons went nuts. They started flying in circles, running into 
each other like they wanted to bash their own brains out. Then they abandoned 
the track altogether and flew skyward in a huge dark wave. 

“Now!” shouted Annabeth. “Archers!” 

With clear targets, Apollo’s archers had flawless aim. Most of them could 
nock five or six arrows at once. Within minutes, the ground was littered with 
dead bronze-beaked pigeons, and the survivors were a distant trail of smoke on 
the horizon. 

The camp was saved, but the wreckage wasn’t pretty. Most of the chariots 
had been completely destroyed. Almost everyone was wounded, bleeding from 
multiple bird pecks. The kids from Aphrodite’s cabin were screaming because 
their hairdos had been ruined and their clothes pooped on. 

“Bravo!” Tantalus said, but he wasn’t looking at me or Annabeth. “We have 
our first winner!” He walked to “He finish line and awarded the golden laurels 
for the race to a stunned-looking Clarisse. 

Then he turned and smiled at me. “And now to punish the troublemakers 
who disrupted this race.” 


SEVEN 


I ACCEPT GIFTS 


FROM A STRANGER 


The way Tantalus saw it, the Stymphalian birds had simply been minding 
their own business in the woods and would not have attacked if Annabeth, 
Tyson, and I hadn’t disturbed them with our bad chariot driving. 

This was so completely unfair, I told Tantalus to go chase a doughnut, 
which didn’t help his mood. He sentenced us to kitchen patrol-scrubbing pots 
and platters all afternoon in the underground kitchen with the cleaning harpies. 
The harpies washed with lava instead of water, to get that extra-clean sparkle and 
kill ninety-nine point nine percent of all germs, so Annabeth and I had to wear 
asbestos gloves and aprons. 

Tyson didn’t mind. He plunged his bare hands right in and started 
scrubbing, but Annabeth and I had to suffer through hours of hot, dangerous 
work, especially since there were tons of extra plates. Tantalus had ordered a 
special luncheon banquet to celebrate Clarisse’s chariot victory-a full-course 
meal featuring country-fried Stymphalian death-bird. 

The only good thing about our punishment was that it gave Annabeth and 
me a common enemy and lots of time to talk. After listening to my dream about 
Grover again, she looked like she might be starting to believe me. 

“Tf he’s really found it,” she murmured, “and if we could retrieve it-“ 

“Hold on,” I said. “You act like this ... whatever-it-is Grover found is the 
only thing in the world that could save the camp. What is it?” 

“T’ll give you a hint. What do you get when you skin a ram?” 

“Messy?” 

She sighed. “A fleece. The coat of a ram is called a fleece. And if that ram 
happens to have golden wool-“ 

“The Golden Fleece. Are you serious?” 

Annabeth scrapped a plateful of death-bird bones into the lava. “Percy, 
remember the Gray Sisters? They said they knew the location of the thing you 
seek. And they mentioned Jason. Three thousand years ago, they told him how to 
find the Golden Fleece. You do know the story of Jason and the Argonauts?” 

“Yeah,” I said. “That old movie with the clay skeletons.” 

Annabeth rolled her eyes. “Oh my gods, Percy! You are so hopeless.” 

“What?” I demanded. 

“Just listen. The real story of the Fleece: there were these two children of 
Zeus, Cadmus and Europa, okay? They were about to get offered up as human 
sacrifices, when they prayed to Zeus to save them. So Zeus sent this magical 


flying ram with golden wool, which picked them up in Greece and carried them 
all the way to Colchis in Asia Minor. Well, actually it carried Cadmus. Europa 
fell off and died along the way, but that’s not important.” 

“Tt was probably important to her.” 

“The point is, when Cadmus got to Colchis, he sacrificed the golden ram to 
the gods and hung the Fleece in a tree in the middle of the kingdom. The Fleece 
brought prosperity to the land. Animals stopped getting sick. Plants grew better. 
Farmers had bumper crops. Plagues never visited. That’s why Jason wanted the 
Fleece. It can revitalize any land where it’s placed. It cures sickness, strengthens 
nature, cleans up pollution-“ 

“Tt could cure Thalia’s tree.” 

Annabeth nodded. “And it would totally strengthen the borders of Camp 
Half-Blood. But Percy, the Fleece has been missing for centuries. Tons of heroes 
have searched for it with no luck.” 

“But Grover found it,” I said. “He went looking for Pan and he found the 
Fleece instead because they both radiate nature magic. It makes sense, Annabeth. 
We can rescue him and save the camp at the same time. It’s perfect!” 

Annabeth hesitated. “A little too perfect, don’t you think? What if it’s a 
trap?” 

I remembered last summer, how Kronos had manipulated our quest. He’d 
almost fooled us into helping him start a war that would’ve destroyed Western 
Civilization. 

“What choice do we have?” I asked. “Are you going to help me rescue 
Grover or not?” 

She glanced at Tyson, who’d lost interest in our conversation and was 
happily making toy boats out of cups and spoons in the lava. 

“Percy,” she said under her breath, “we’ll have to fight a Cyclops. 
Polyphemus, the worst of the Cyclopes. And there’s only one place his island 
could be. The Sea of Monsters.” 

“Where’s that?” 

She stared at me like she thought I was playing dumb. “The Sea of 
Monsters. The same sea Odysseus sailed through, and Jason, and Aeneas, and all 
the others.” 

“You mean the Mediterranean?” 

“No. Well, yes ... but no.” 

“Another straight answer. Thanks.” 

“Look, Percy, the Sea of Monsters is the sea all heroes sail through on their 
adventures. It used to be in the Mediterranean, yes. But like everything else, it 
shifts locations as the West’s center of power shifts.” 


“Like Mount Olympus being above the Empire State Building,” I said. 
“And Hades being under Los Angeles.” 

“Right.” 

“But a whole sea full of monsters-how could you hide something like that? 
Wouldn’t the mortals notice weird things happening ... like, ships getting eaten 
and stuff?” 

“Of course they notice. They don’t understand, but they know something is 
strange about that part of the ocean. The Sea of Monsters is off the east coast of 
the U.S. now, just northeast of Florida. The mortals even have a name for it.” 

“The Bermuda Triangle?” 

“Exactly.” 

I let that sink in. I guess it wasn’t stranger than anything else I’d learned 
since coming to Camp Half-Blood. “Okay ... so at least we know where to 
look.” 

“Tt’s still a huge area, Percy. Searching for one tiny island in monster- 
infested waters-“ 

“Hey, I’m the son of the sea god. This is my home turf. How hard can it 
be?” 

Annabeth knit her eyebrows. “We’ll have to talk to Tantalus, get approval 
for a quest. He’Il say no.” 

“Not if we tell him tonight at the campfire in front of everybody. The whole 
camp will hear. They’Il pressure him. He won’t be able to refuse.” 

“Maybe.” A little bit of hope crept into Annabeth’s voice. “We’d better get 
these dishes done. Hand me the lava spray gun, will you?” 

That night at the campfire, Apollo’s cabin led the sing-along. They tried to 
get everybody’s spirits up, but it wasn’t easy after that afternoon’s bird attack. 
We all sat around a semicircle of stone steps, singing halfheartedly and watching 
the bonfire blaze while the Apollo guys strummed their guitars and picked their 
lyres. 

We did all the standard camp numbers: “Down by the Aegean,” “I Am My 
Own Great-Great-Great-Great-Grandpa,” “This Land is Minos’s Land.” The 
bonfire was enchanted, so the louder you sang, the higher it rose, changing color 
and heat with the mood of the crowd. On a good night, I’d seen it twenty feet 
high, bright purple, and so hot the whole front row’s marshmallows burst into 
the flames. Tonight, the fire was only five feet high, barely warm, and the flames 
were the color of lint. 

Dionysus left early. After suffering through a few songs, he muttered 
something about how even pinochle with Chiron had been more exciting than 
this. Then he gave Tantalus a distasteful look and headed back toward the Big 


House. 

When the last song was over, Tantalus said, “Well, that was lovely!” 

He came forward with a toasted marshmallow on a stick and tried to pluck 
it off, real casual-like. But before he could touch it, the marshmallow flew off 
the stick. Tantalus made a wild grab, but the marshmallow committed suicide, 
diving into the flames. 

Tantalus turned back toward us, smiling coldly. “Now then! Some 
announcements about tomorrow’s schedule.” 

“Sir,” I said. 

Tantalus’s eye twitched. “Our kitchen boy has something to say?” 

Some of the Ares campers snickered, but I wasn’t going to let anybody 
embarrass me into silence. I stood and looked at Annabeth. Thank the gods, she 
stood up with me. 

I said, “We have an idea to save the camp.” 

Dead silence, but I could tell ’d gotten everybody’s interest, because the 
campfire flared bright yellow. 

“Indeed,” Tantalus said blandly. “Well, if it has anything to do with 
chariots-“ 

“The Golden Fleece,” I said. “We know where it is.” 

The flames burned orange. Before Tantalus could stop me, I blurted out my 
dream about Grover and Polyphemus’s island. Annabeth stepped in and 
reminded everybody what the Fleece could do. It sounded more convincing 
coming from her. 

“The Fleece can save the camp,” she concluded. “I’m certain of it.” 

“Nonsense,” said Tantalus. “We don’t need saving.” 

Everybody stared at him until Tantalus started looking uncomfortable. 

“Besides,” he added quickly, “the Sea of Monsters? That’s hardly an exact 
location. You wouldn’t even know where to look.” 

“Yes, I would,” I said. 

Annabeth leaned toward me and whispered, “You would?” 

I nodded, because Annabeth had jogged something in my memory when 
she reminded me about our taxi drive with the Gray Sisters. At the time, the 
information they’d given me made no sense. But now ... 

“30, 31, 75, 12,” I said. 

“Ooo-kay,” Tantalus said. “Thank you for sharing those meaningless 
numbers.” 

“They’re sailing coordinates,” I said. “Latitude and longitude. I, uh, learned 
about it in social studies.” 

Even Annabeth looked impressed. “30 degrees, 31 minutes north, 75 


degrees, 12 minutes west. He’s right! The Gray Sisters gave us those 
coordinates. That’d be somewhere in the Atlantic, off the coast of Florida. The 
Sea of Monsters. We need a quest!” 

“Wait just a minute,” Tantalus said. 

But the campers took up the chant. “We need a quest! We need a quest!” 

The flames rose higher. 

“Tt isn’t necessary!” Tantalus insisted. 

“WE NEED A QUEST! WE NEED A QUEST!” 

“Fine!” Tantalus shouted, his eyes blazing with anger. “You brats want me 
to assign a quest?” 

“YES!” 

“Very well,” he agreed. “I shall authorize a champion to undertake this 
perilous journey, to retrieve the Golden Fleece and bring it back to camp. Or die 
trying.” 

My heart filled with excitement. I wasn’t going to let Tantalus scare me. 
This was what I needed to do. I was going to save Grover and the camp. Nothing 
would stop me. 

“T will allow our champion to consult the Oracle!” Tantalus announced. 
“And choose two companions for the journey. And I think the choice of 
champion is obvious.” 

Tantalus looked at Annabeth and me as if he wanted to flay us alive. “The 
champion should be one who has earned the camp’s respect, who has proven 
resourceful in the chariot races and courageous in the defense of the camp. You 
shall lead this quest ... Clarisse!” 

The fire flickered a thousand different colors. The Ares cabin started 
stomping and cheering, “CLARISSE! CLARISSE!” 

Clarisse stood up, looking stunned. Then she swallowed, and her chest 
swelled with pride. “I accept the quest!” 

“Wait!” I shouted. “Grover is my friend. The dream came to me.” 

“Sit down!” yelled one of the Ares campers. “You had your chance last 
summer!” 

“Yeah, he just wants to be in the spotlight again!” another said. 

Clarisse glared at me. “I accept the quest!” she repeated. “I, Clarisse, 
daughter of Ares, will save the camp!” 

The Ares campers cheered even louder. Annabeth protested, and the other 
Athena campers joined in. Everybody else started taking sides-shouting and 
arguing and throwing marshmallows. I thought it was going to turn into a full- 
fledged s’more war until Tantalus shouted, “Silence, you brats!” 

His tone stunned even me. 


“Sit down!” he ordered. “And I will tell you a ghost story.” 

I didn’t know what he was up to, but we all moved reluctantly back to our 
seats. The evil aura radiating from Tantalus was as strong as any monster I’d 
ever faced. 

“Once upon a time there was a mortal king who was beloved of the Gods!” 
Tantalus put his hand on his chest, and I got the feeling he was talking about 
himself. 

“This king,” he said, “was even allowed to feast on Mount Olympus. But 
when he tried to take some ambrosia and nectar back to earth to figure out the 
recipe-just one little doggie bag, mind you-the gods punished him. They banned 
him from their halls forever! His own people mocked him! His children scolded 
him! And, oh yes, campers, he had horrible children. Children-just-like-you.” 

He pointed a crooked finger at several people in the audience, including me. 

“Do you know what he did to his ungrateful children?” Tantalus asked 
softly. “Do you know how he paid back the gods for their cruel punishment? He 
invited the Olympians to a feast at his palace, just to show there were no hard 
feelings. No one noticed that his children were missing. And when he served the 
gods dinner, my dear campers, can you guess what was in the stew?” 

No one dared answer. The firelight glowed dark blue, reflecting evilly on 
Tantalus’s crooked face. 

“Oh, the gods punished him in the afterlife,” Tantalus croaked. “They did 
indeed. But he’d had his moment of satisfaction, hadn’t he? His children never 
again spoke back to him or questioned his authority. And do you know what? 
Rumor has it that the king’s spirit now dwells at this very camp, waiting for a 
chance to take revenge on ungrateful, rebellious children. And so ... are there 
any more complaints, before we send Clarisse off on her quest?” 

Silence. 

Tantalus nodded at Clarisse. “The Oracle, my dear. Go on.” 

She shifted uncomfortably, like even she didn’t want glory at the price of 
being Tantalus’s pet. “Sir-“ 

“Go!” he snarled. 

She bowed awkwardly and hurried off toward the Big House. 

“What about you, Percy Jackson?” Tantalus asked. “No comments from our 
dishwasher?” 

I didn’t say anything. I wasn’t going to give him the satisfaction of 
punishing me again. 

“Good,” Tantalus said. “And let me remind everyone-no one leaves this 
camp without my permission. Anyone who tries ... well, if they survive the 
attempt, they will be expelled forever, but it won’t come to that. The harpies will 


be enforcing curfew from now on, and they are always hungry! Good night, my 
dear campers. Sleep well.” 

With a wave of Tantalus’s hand, the fire was extinguished, and the campers 
trailed off toward their cabins in the dark. 

I couldn’t explain things to Tyson. He knew I was sad. He knew I wanted to 
go on a trip and Tantalus wouldn’t let me. 

“You will go anyway?” he asked. 

“T don’t know,” I admitted. “It would be hard. Very hard.” 

“T will help.” 

“No. I-uh, I couldn’t ask you to do that, big guy. Too dangerous.” 

Tyson looked down at the pieces of metal he was assembling in his lap- 
springs and gears and tiny wires. Beckendorf had given him some tools and 
Spare parts, and now Tyson spent every night tinkering, though I wasn’t sure 
how his huge hands could handle such delicate little pieces. 

“What are you building?” I asked. 

Tyson didn’t answer. Instead he made a whimpering sound in the back of 
his throat. “Annabeth doesn’t like Cyclopes. You ... don’t want me along?” 

“Oh, that’s not it,” I said halfheartedly. “Annabeth likes you. Really.” 

He had tears in the corners of his eye. 

I remembered that Grover, like all satyrs, could read human emotions. I 
wondered if Cyclopes had the same ability. 

Tyson folded up his tinkering project in an oilcloth. He lay down on his 
bunk bed and hugged his bundle like a teddy bear. When he turned toward the 
wall, I could see the weird scars on his back, like somebody had plowed over 
him with a tractor. I wondered for the millionth time how he’d gotten hurt. 

“Daddy always cared for m-me,” he sniffled. “Now ... I think he was mean 
to have a Cyclops boy. I should not have been born.” 

“Don’t talk that way! Poseidon claimed you, didn’t he? So ... he must care 
about you ... a lot....” 

My voice trailed off as I thought about all those years Tyson had lived on 
the streets of New York in a cardboard refrigerator box. How could Tyson think 
that Poseidon had cared for him? What kind of dad let that happen to his kid, 
even if his kid was a monster? 

“Tyson ... camp will be a good home for you. The others will get used to 
you. I promise.” 

Tyson sighed. I waited for him to say something. Then I realized he was 
already asleep. 

I lay back on my bed and tried to close my eyes, but I just couldn’t. I was 
afraid I might have another dream about Grover. If the empathy link was real ... 


if something happened to Grover ... would I ever wake up? 

The full moon shone through my window. The sound of the surf rumbled in 
the distance. I could smell the warm scent of the strawberry fields, and hear the 
laughter of the dryads as they chased owls through the forest. But something felt 
wrong about the night-the sickness of Thalia’s tree, spreading across the valley. 

Could Clarisse save Half-Blood Hill? I thought the odds were better of me 
getting a “Best Camper” award from Tantalus. 

I got out of bed and pulled on some clothes. I grabbed a beach blanket and a 
six-pack of Coke from under my bunk. The Cokes were against the rules. No 
outside snacks or drinks were allowed, but if you talked to the right guy in 
Hermes’s cabin and paid him a few golden drachma, he could smuggle in almost 
anything from the nearest convenience store. 

Sneaking out after curfew was against the rules, too. If I got caught I’d 
either get in big trouble or be eaten by the harpies. But I wanted to see the ocean. 
I always felt better there. My thoughts were clearer. I left the cabin and headed 
for the beach. 

I spread my blanket near the surf and popped open a Coke. For some reason 
sugar and caffeine always calmed down my hyperactive brain. I tried to decide 
what to do to save the camp, but nothing came to me. I wished Poseidon would 
talk to me, give me some advice or something. 

The sky was clear and starry. I was checking out the constellations 
Annabeth had taught me-Sagittarius, Hercules, Corona Borealis-when somebody 
said, “Beautiful, aren’t they?” 

I almost spewed soda. 

Standing right next to me was a guy in nylon running shorts and a New 
York City Marathon T-shirt. He was slim and fit, with salt-and-pepper hair and a 
sly smile. He looked kind of familiar, but I couldn’t figure out why. 

My first thought was that he must’ve been taking a midnight jog down the 
beach and strayed inside the camp borders. That wasn’t supposed to happen. 
Regular mortals couldn’t enter the valley. But maybe with the tree’s magic 
weakening he’d managed to slip in. But in the middle of the night? And there 
was nothing around except farmland and state preserves. Where would this guy 
have jogged from? 

“May I join you?” he asked. “I haven’t sat down in ages.” 

Now, I know-a strange guy in the middle of the night. Common sense: I 
was supposed to run away, yell for help, etc. But the guy acted so calm about the 
whole thing that I found it hard to be afraid. 

I said, “Uh, sure.” 

He smiled. “Your hospitality does you credit. Oh, and Coca-Cola! May I?” 


He sat at the other end of the blanket, popped a soda and took a drink. “Ah 
... that hits the spot. Peace and quiet at-“ 

A cell phone went off in his pocket. 

The jogger sighed. He pulled out his phone and my eyes got big, because it 
glowed with a bluish light. When he extended the antenna, two creatures began 
writhing around it-green snakes, no bigger than earthworms. 

The jogger didn’t seem to notice. He checked his LCD display and cursed. 
“T’ve got to take this. Just a sec ...” Then into the phone: “Hello?” 

He listened. The mini-snakes writhed up and down the antenna right next to 
his ear. 

“Yeah,” the jogger said. “ListenI know, but... I don’t care if he is chained to 
a rock with vultures pecking at his liver, if he doesn’t have a tracking number, 
we can’t locate his package.... A gift to humankind, great... You know how 
many of those we deliver-Oh, never mind. Listen, just refer him to Eris in 
customer service. I gotta go.” 

He hung up. “Sorry. The overnight express business is just booming. Now, 
as I was saying-“ 

“You have snakes on your phone.” 

“What? Oh, they don’t bite. Say hello, George and Martha.” 

Hello, George and Martha, a raspy male voice said inside my head. 

Don’t be sarcastic, said a female voice. 

Why not? George demanded. I do all the real work. 

“Oh, let’s not go into that again!” The jogger slipped his phone back into 
his pocket. “Now, where were we ... Ah, yes. Peace and quiet.” 

He crossed his ankles and stared up at the stars. “Been a long time since 
I’ve gotten to relax. Ever since the telegraph-rush, rush, rush. Do you have a 
favorite constellation, Percy?” 

I was still kind of wondering about the little green snakes he’d shoved into 
his jogging shorts, but I said, “Uh, I like Hercules.” 

“Why?” 

“Well ... because he had rotten luck. Even worse than mine. It makes me 
feel better.” 

The jogger chuckled. “Not because he was strong and famous and all that?” 

“No.” 

“You’re an interesting young man. And so, what now?” 

I knew immediately what he was asking. What did I intend to do about the 
Fleece? 

Before I could answer, Martha the snake’s muffled voice came from his 
pocket: I have Demeter on line two. 


“Not now,” the jogger said. “Tell her to leave a message.” 

She’s not going to like that. The last time you put her off, all the flowers in 
the floral delivery division wilted. 

“Just tell her I’m in a meeting!” The jogger rolled his eyes. “Sorry again, 
Percy. You were saying ...” 

“Um ... who are you, exactly?” 

“Haven’t you guessed by now, a smart boy like you?” 

Show him! Martha pleaded. I haven’t been full-size for months. 

Don’t listen to her! George said. She just wants to show off! 

The man took out his phone again. “Original form, please.” 

The phone glowed a brilliant blue. It stretched into a three-foot-long 
wooden staff with dove wings sprouting out the top. George and Martha, now 
full-sized green snakes, coiled together around the middle. It was a caduceus, the 
symbol of Cabin Eleven. 

My throat tightened. I realized who the jogger reminded me of with his 
elfish features, the mischievous twinkle in his eyes.... 

“You’re Luke’s father,” I said. “Hermes.” 

The god pursed his lips. He stuck his caduceus in the sand like an umbrella 
pole. “‘Luke’s father.’ Normally, that’s not the first way people introduce me. 
God of thieves, yes. God of messengers and travelers, if they wish to be kind.” 

God of thieves works, George said. 

Oh, don’t mind George. Martha flicked her tongue at me. He’s just bitter 
because Hermes likes me best. 

He does not! 

Does too! 

“Behave, you two,” Hermes warned, “or I’I] turn you back into a cell phone 
and set you on vibrate! Now, Percy, you still haven’t answered my question. 
What do you intend to do about the quest?” 

“T-I don’t have permission to go.” 

“No, indeed. Will that stop you?” 

“T want to go. I have to save Grover.” 

Hermes smiled. “I knew a boy once ... oh, younger than you by far. A mere 
baby, really.” 

Here we go again, George said. Always talking about himself 

Quiet! Martha snapped. Do you want to get set on vibrate? 

Hermes ignored them. “One night, when this boy’s mother wasn’t watching, 
he sneaked out of their cave and stole some cattle that belonged to Apollo.” 

“Did he get blasted to tiny pieces?” I asked. 

“Hmm ... no. Actually, everything turned out quite well. To make up for his 


theft, the boy gave Apollo an instrument he’d invented-a lyre. Apollo was so 
enchanted with the music that he forgot all about being angry.” 

“So what’s the moral?” 

“The moral?” Hermes asked. “Goodness, you act like it’s a fable. It’s a true 
story. Does truth have a moral?” 

MIM a5 

“How about this: stealing is not always bad?” 

“T don’t think my mom would like that moral.” 

Rats are delicious, suggested George. 

What does that have to do with the story? Martha demanded. 

Nothing, George said. But I’m hungry. 

“T’ve got it,” Hermes said. “Young people don’t always do what they’re 
told, but if they can pull it off and do something wonderful, sometimes they 
escape punishment. How’s that?” 

“You’re saying I should go anyway,” I said, “even without permission.” 

Hermes’s eyes twinkled. “Martha, may I have the first package, please?” 

Martha opened her mouth ... and kept opening it until it was as wide as my 
arm. She belched out a stainless steel canister-an old-fashioned lunch box 
thermos with a black plastic top. The sides of the thermos were enameled with 
red and yellow Ancient Greek scenes-a hero killing a lion; a hero lifting up 
Cerberus, the three-headed dog. 

“That’s Hercules,” I said. “But how-“ 

“Never question a gift,” Hermes chided. “This is a collector’s item from 
Hercules Busts Heads. The first season.” 

“Hercules Busts Heads?” 

“Great show.” Hermes sighed. “Back before Hephaestus-TV was all reality 
programming. Of course, the thermos would be worth much more if I had the 
whole lunch box-“ 

Or if it hadn’t been in Martha’s mouth, George added. 

I'll get you for that. Martha began chasing him around the caduceus. 

“Wait a minute,” I said. “This is a gift?” 

“One of two,” Hermes said. “Go on, pick it up.” 

I almost dropped it because it was freezing cold on one side and burning hot 
on the other. The weird thing was, when I turned the thermos, the side facing the 
ocean-north-was always the cold side.... 

“Tt’s a compass!” I said. 

Hermes looked surprised. “Very clever. I never thought of that. But its 
intended use is a bit more dramatic. Uncap it, and you will release the winds 
from the four corners of the earth to speed you on your way. Not now! And 


please, when the time comes, only unscrew the lid a tiny bit. The winds are a bit 
like me-always restless. Should all four escape at once ... ah, but I’m sure you’ ll 
be careful. And now my second gift. George?” 

She’s touching me, George complained as he and Martha slithered around 
the pole. 

“She’s always touching you,” Hermes said. “You’re intertwined. And if you 
don’t stop that, you’ll get knotted again! 

The snakes stopped wrestling. 

George unhinged his jaw and coughed up a little plastic bottle filled with 
chewable vitamins. 

“You’re kidding,” I said. “Are those Minotaur-shaped?” 

Hermes picked up the bottle and rattled it. “The lemon ones, yes. The grape 
ones are Furies, I think. Or are they hydras? At any rate, these are potent. Don’t 
take one unless you really, really need it.” 

“How will I know if I really, really need it?” 

“You’ll know, believe me. Nine essential vitamins, minerals, amino acids 
... oh, everything you need to feel yourself again.” 

He tossed me the bottle. 

“Um, thanks,” I said. “But Lord Hermes, why are you helping me?” 

He gave me a melancholy smile. “Perhaps because I hope that you can save 
many people on this quest, Percy. Not just your friend Grover.” 

I stared at him. “You don’t mean ... Luke?” 

Hermes didn’t answer. 

“Look,” I said. “Lord Hermes, I mean, thanks and everything, but you 
might as well take back your gifts. Luke can’t be saved. Even if I could find him 
... he told me he wanted to tear down Olympus stone by stone. He betrayed 
everybody he knew. He-he hates you especially.” 

Hermes gazed up at the stars. “My dear young cousin, if there’s one thing 
I’ve learned over the eons, it’s that you can’t give up on your family, no matter 
how tempting they make it. It doesn’t matter if they hate you, or embarrass you, 
or simply don’t appreciate your genius for inventing the Internet-“ 

“You invented the Internet?” 

It was my idea, Martha said. 

Rats are delicious, George said. 

“Tt was my idea!” Hermes said. “I mean the Internet, not the rats. But that’s 
not the point. Percy, do you understand what I’m saying about family?” 

“T-I’m not sure.” 

“You will some day.” Hermes got up and brushed the sand off his legs. “In 
the meantime, I must be going.” 


You have sixty calls to return, Martha said. 

And one thousand-thirty-eight e-mails, George added. Not counting the 
offers for online discount ambrosia. 

“And you, Percy,” Hermes said, “have a shorter deadline than you realize to 
complete your quest. Your friends should be coming right about ... now.” 

I heard Annabeth’s voice calling my name from the sand dunes. Tyson, too, 
was shouting from a little bit farther away. 

“T hope I packed well for you,” Hermes said. “I do have some experience 
with travel.” 

He snapped his fingers and three yellow duffel bags appeared at my feet. 
“Waterproof, of course. If you ask nicely, your father should be able to help you 
reach the ship.” 

“Ship?” 

Hermes pointed. Sure enough, a big cruise ship was cutting across Long 
Island Sound, its white-and-gold lights glowing against the dark water. 

“Wait,” I said. “I don’t understand any of this. I haven’t even agreed to go!” 

“T’d make up your mind in the next five minutes, if I were you,” Hermes 
advised. “That’s when the harpies will come to eat you. Now, good night, cousin, 
and dare I say it? May the gods go with you.” 

He opened his hand and the caduceus flew into it. 

Good luck, Martha told me. 

Bring me back a rat, George said. 

The caduceus changed into a cell phone and Hermes slipped it into his 
pocket. 

He jogged off down the beach. Twenty paces away, he shimmered and 
vanished, leaving me alone with a thermos, a bottle of chewable vitamins, and 
five minutes to make an impossible decision. 


EIGHT 


WE BOARD THE 


PRINCESS ANDROMEDA 


I was staring at the waves when Annabeth and Tyson found me. 

“What’s going on?” Annabeth asked. “I heard you calling for help!” 

“Me, too!” Tyson said. “Heard you yell, ‘Bad things are attacking!’” 

“T didn’t call you guys,” I said. “I’m fine.” 

“But then who ...” Annabeth noticed the three yellow duffel bags, then the 
thermos and the bottle of vitamins I was holding. “What-“ 

“Just listen,” I said. “We don’t have much time.” 

I told them about my conversation with Hermes. By the time I was finished, 
I could hear screeching in the distance-patrol harpies picking up our scent. 

“Percy,” Annabeth said, “we have to do the quest.” 

“We’ ll get expelled, you know. Trust me, I’m an expert at getting expelled.” 

“So? If we fail, there won’t be any camp to come back to.” 

“Yeah, but you promised Chiron-“ 

“T promised I’d keep you from danger. I can only do that by coming with 
you! Tyson can stay behind and tell them-“ 

“T want to go,” Tyson said. 

“No!” Annabeth’s voice sounded close to panic. “I mean ... Percy, come 
on. You know that’s impossible.” 

I wondered again why she had such a grudge against Cyclopes. There was 
something she wasn’t telling me. 

She and Tyson both looked at me, waiting for an answer. Meanwhile, the 
cruise ship was getting farther and farther away. 

The thing was, part of me didn’t want Tyson along. I’d spent the last three 
days in close quarters with the guy, getting razzed by the other campers and 
embarrassed a million times a day, constantly reminded that I was related to him. 
I needed some space. 

Plus, I didn’t know how much help he’d be, or how I’d keep him safe. Sure, 
he was strong, but Tyson was a little kid in Cyclops terms, maybe seven or eight 
years old, mentally. I could see him freaking out and starting to cry while we 
were trying to sneak past a monster or something. He’d get us all killed. 

On the other hand, the sound of the harpies was getting closer.... 

“We can’t leave him,” I decided. “Tantalus will punish him for us being 
gone.” 

“Percy,” Annabeth said, trying to keep her cool, “we’re going to 
Polyphemus’s island! Polyphemus is an S-i-k ... a C-y-k . ..” She stamped her 


foot in frustration. As smart as she was, Annabeth was dyslexic, too. We 
could’ve been there all night while she tried to spell Cyclops. “You know what I 
mean!” 

“Tyson can go,” I insisted, “if he wants to.” 

Tyson clapped his hands. “Want to!” 

Annabeth gave me the evil eye, but I guess she could tell I wasn’t going to 
change my mind. Or maybe she just knew we didn’t have time to argue. 

“All right,” she said. “How do we get to that ship?” 

“Hermes said my father would help.” 

“Well then, Seaweed Brain? What are you waiting for?” 

I’d always had a hard time calling on my father, or praying, or whatever 
you want to call it, but I stepped into the waves. 

“Urn, Dad?” I called. “How’s it going?” 

“Percy!” Annabeth whispered. “We’re in a hurry!” 

“We need your help,” I called a little louder. “We need to get to that ship, 
like, before we get eaten and stuff, so ...” 

At first, nothing happened. Waves crashed against the shore like normal. 
The harpies sounded like they were right behind the sand dunes. Then, about a 
hundred yards out to sea, three white lines appeared on the surface. They moved 
fast toward the shore, like claws ripping through the ocean. 

As they neared the beach, the surf burst apart and the heads of three white 
Stallions reared out of the waves. 

Tyson caught his breath. “Fish ponies!” 

He was right. As the creatures pulled themselves onto the sand, I saw that 
they were only horses in the front; their back halves were silvery fish bodies, 
with glistening scales and rainbow tail fins. 

“Hippocampi!” Annabeth said. “They’re beautiful.” 

The nearest one whinnied in appreciation and nuzzled Annabeth. 

“We’|l admire them later,” I said. “Come on!” 

“There!” a voice screeched behind us. “Bad children out of cabins! Snack 
time for lucky harpies!” 

Five of them were fluttering over the top of the dunes-plump little hags 
with pinched faces and talons and feathery wings too small for their bodies. 
They reminded me of miniature cafeteria ladies who’d been crossbred with dodo 
birds. They weren’t very fast, thank the gods, but they were vicious if they 
caught you. 

“Tyson!” I said. “Grab a duffel bag!” 

He was still staring at the hippocampi with his mouth hanging open, 
“Tyson!” 


“Uh?” 

“Come on!” 

With Annabeth’s help I got him moving. We gathered the bags and mounted 
our steeds. Poseidon must’ve known Tyson was one of the passengers, because 
one hippocampus was much larger than the other two-just right for carrying a 
Cyclops. 

“Giddyup!” I said. My hippocampus turned and plunged into the waves. 
Annabeth’s and Tyson’s followed right behind. 

The harpies cursed at us, wailing for their snacks to come back, but the 
hippocampi raced over the water at the speed of Jet Skis. The harpies fell behind, 
and soon the shore of Camp Half-Blood was nothing but a dark smudge. I 
wondered if I’d ever see the place again. But right then I had other problems. 

The cruise ship was now looming in front of us-our ride toward Florida and 
the Sea of Monsters. 

Riding the hippocampus was even easier than riding a pegasus. We zipped 
along with the wind in our faces, speeding through the waves so smooth and 
steady I hardly needed to hold on at all. 

As we got closer to the cruise ship, I realized just how huge it was. I felt as 
though I were looking up at a building in Manhattan. The white hull was at least 
ten stories tall, topped with another dozen levels of decks with brightly lit 
balconies and portholes. The ship’s name was painted just above the bow line in 
black letters, lit with a spotlight. It took me a few seconds to decipher it: 
PRINCESS ANDROMEDA 

Attached to the bow was a huge masthead-a three-story-tall woman wearing 
a white Greek chiton, sculpted to look as if she were chained to the front of the 
ship. She was young and beautiful, with flowing black hair, but her expression 
was one of absolute terror. Why anybody would want a screaming princess on 
the front of their vacation ship, I had no idea. 

I remembered the myth about Andromeda and how she had been chained to 
a rock by her own parents as a sacrifice to a sea monster. Maybe she’d gotten too 
many F’s on her report card or something. Anyway, my namesake, Perseus, had 
saved her just in time and turned the sea monster to stone using the head of 
Medusa. 

That Perseus always won. That’s why my mom had named me after him, 
even though he was a son of Zeus and I was a son of Poseidon. The original 
Perseus was one of the only heroes in the Greek myths who got a happy ending. 
The others died-betrayed, mauled, mutilated, poisoned, or cursed by the gods. 
My mom hoped I would inherit Perseus’s luck. Judging by how my life was 
going so far, I wasn’t real optimistic. 


“How do we get aboard?” Annabeth shouted over the noise of the waves, 
but the hippocampi seemed to know what we needed. They skimmed along the 
starboard side of the ship, riding easily through its huge wake, and pulled up 
next to a service ladder riveted to the side of the hull. 

“You first,” I told Annabeth. 

She slung her duffel bag over her shoulder and grabbed the bottom rung. 
Once she’d hoisted herself onto the ladder, her hippocampus whinnied a farewell 
and dove underwater. Annabeth began to climb. I let her get a few rungs up, then 
followed her. 

Finally it was just Tyson in the water. His hippocampus was treating him to 
360° aerials and backward ollies, and Tyson was laughing so hysterically, the 
sound echoed up the side of the ship. 

“Tyson, shhh!” I said. “Come on, big guy!” 

“Can’t we take Rainbow?” he asked, his smile fading. 

I stared at him. “Rainbow?” 

The hippocampus whinnied as if he liked his new name. 

“Um, we have to go,” I said. “Rainbow ... well, he can’t climb ladders.” 

Tyson sniffled. He buried his face in the hippocampus’s mane. “I will miss 
you, Rainbow!” 

The hippocampus made a neighing sound I could’ve sworn was crying. 

“Maybe we’ ll see him again sometime,” I suggested. 

“Oh, please!” Tyson said, perking up immediately. “Tomorrow!” 

I didn’t make any promises, but I finally convinced Tyson to say his 
farewells and grab hold of the ladder. With a final sad whinny, Rainbow the 
hippocampus did a back-flip and dove into the sea. 

The ladder led to a maintenance deck stacked with yellow lifeboats. There 
was a Set of locked double doors, which Annabeth managed to pry open with her 
knife and a fair amount of cursing in Ancient Greek. 

I figured we’d have to sneak around, being stowaways and all, but after 
checking a few corridors and peering over a balcony into a huge central 
promenade lined with closed shops, I began to realize there was nobody to hide 
from. I mean, sure it was the middle of the night, but we walked half the length 
of the boat and met no one. We passed forty or fifty cabin doors and heard no 
sound behind any of them. 

“Tt’s a ghost ship,” I murmured. 

“No,” Tyson said, fiddling with the strap of his duffel bag. “Bad smell.” 

Annabeth frowned. “I don’t smell anything.” 

“Cyclopes are like satyrs,” I said. “They can smell monsters. Isn’t that right, 
Tyson?” 


He nodded nervously. Now that we were away from Camp Half-Blood, the 
Mist had distorted his face again. Unless I concentrated very hard, it seemed that 
he had two eyes instead of one. 

“Okay,” Annabeth said. “So what exactly do you smell?” 

“Something bad,” Tyson answered. 

“Great,” Annabeth grumbled. “That clears it up.” 

We came outside on the swimming pool level. There were rows of empty 
deck chairs and a bar closed off with a chain curtain. The water in the pool 
glowed eerily, sloshing back and forth from the motion of the ship. 

Above us fore and aft were more levels-a climbing wall, a putt-putt golf 
course, a revolving restaurant, but no sign of life. 

And yet ... I sensed something familiar. Something dangerous. I had the 
feeling that if I weren’t so tired and burned out on adrenaline from our long 
night, I might be able to put a name to what was wrong. 

“We need a hiding place,” I said. “Somewhere safe to sleep.” 

“Sleep,” Annabeth agreed wearily. 

We explored a few more corridors until we found an empty suite on the 
ninth level. The door was open, which struck me as weird. There was a basket of 
chocolate goodies on the table, an iced-down bottle of sparkling cider on the 
nightstand, and a mint on the pillow with a handwritten note that said: Enjoy 
your cruise! 

We opened our duffel bags for the first time and found that Hermes really 
had thought of everything-extra clothes, toiletries, camp rations, a Ziploc bag 
full of cash, a leather pouch full of golden drachmas. He’d even managed to 
pack Tyson’s oilcloth with his tools and metal bits, and Annabeth’s cap of 
invisibility, which made them both feel a lot better. 

“T’ll be next door,” Annabeth said. “You guys don’t drink or eat anything.” 

“You think this place is enchanted?” 

She frowned. “I don’t know. Something isn’t right. Just ... be careful.” 

We locked our doors. 

Tyson crashed on the couch. He tinkered for a few minutes on his 
metalworking project-which he still wouldn’t show me-but soon enough he was 
yawning. He wrapped up his oilcloth and passed out. 

I lay on the bed and stared out the porthole. I thought I heard voices out in 
the hallway, like whispering. I knew that couldn’t be. We’d walked all over the 
ship and had seen nobody. But the voices kept me awake. They reminded me of 
my trip to the Underworld-the way the spirits of the dead sounded as they drifted 
past. 

Finally my weariness got the best of me. I fell asleep ... and had my worst 


dream yet. 

I was standing in a cavern at the edge of an enormous pit. I knew the place 
too well. The entrance to Tartarus. And I recognized the cold laugh that echoed 
from the darkness below. 

If it isn’t the young hero. The voice was like a knife blade scraping across 
stone. On his way to another great victory. 

I wanted to shout at Kronos to leave me alone. I wanted to draw Riptide and 
strike him down. But I couldn’t move. And even if I could, how could I kill 
something that had already been destroyed-chopped to pieces and cast into 
eternal darkness? 

Don’t let me stop you, the titan said. Perhaps this time, when you fail, 
you'll wonder if it’s worthwhile slaving for the gods. How exactly has your 
father shown his appreciation lately? 

His laughter filled the cavern, and suddenly the scene changed. 

It was a different cave-Grover’s bedroom prison in the Cyclops’s lair. 

Grover was sitting at the loom in his soiled wedding dress, madly 
unraveling the threads of the unfinished bridal train. 

“Honeypie!” the monster shouted from behind the boulder. 

Grover yelped and began weaving the threads back together. 

The room shook as the boulder was pushed aside. Looming in the doorway 
was a Cyclops so huge he made Tyson look vertically challenged. He had jagged 
yellow teeth and gnarled hands as big as my whole body. He wore a faded purple 
T-shirt that said WORLD SHEEP EXPO 2001. He must’ve been at least fifteen 
feet tall, but the most startling thing was his enormous milky eye, scarred and 
webbed with cataracts. If he wasn’t completely blind, he had to be pretty darn 
close. 

“What are you doing?” the monster demanded. 

“Nothing!” Grover said in his falsetto voice. “Just weaving my bridal train, 
as you Can see.” 

The Cyclops stuck one hand into the room and groped around until he 
found the loom. He pawed at the cloth. “It hasn’t gotten any longer!” 

“Oh, um, yes it has, dearest. See? I’ve added at least an inch.” 

“Too many delays!” the monster bellowed. Then he sniffed the air. “You 
smell good! Like goats!” 

“Oh.” Grover forced a weak giggle. “Do you like it? It’s Eau de Chevre. I 
wore it just for you.” 

“Mmmm!” The Cyclops bared his pointed teeth. “Good enough to eat!” 

“Oh, you’re such a flirt!” 

“No more delays!” 


“But dear, I’m not done!” 

“Tomorrow!” 

“No, no. Ten more days.” 

“Five!” 

“Oh, well, seven then. If you insist.” 

“Seven! That is less than five, right?” 

“Certainly. Oh yes.” 

The monster grumbled, still not happy with his deal, but he left Grover to 
his weaving and rolled the boulder back into place. 

Grover closed his eyes and took a shaky breath, trying to calm his nerves. 

“Hurry, Percy,” he muttered. “Please, please, please!” 

ok 


I woke to a ship’s whistle and a voice on the intercom-some guy with an 
Australian accent who sounded way too happy. 

“Good morning, passengers! We’ll be at sea all day today. Excellent 
weather for the poolside mambo party! Don’t forget million-dollar bingo in the 
Kraken Lounge at one o’clock, and for our special guests, disemboweling 
practice on the Promenade!” 

I sat up in bed. “What did he say?” 

Tyson groaned, still half asleep. He was lying facedown on the couch, his 
feet so far over the edge they were in the bathroom. “The happy man said ... 
bowling practice?” 

I hoped he was right, but then there was an urgent knock on the suite’s 
interior door. Annabeth stuck her head in-her blond hair in a rat’s nest. 
“Disemboweling practice?” 

Once we were all dressed, we ventured out into the ship and were surprised 
to see other people. A dozen senior citizens were heading to breakfast. A dad 
was taking his kids to the pool for a morning swim. Crew members in crisp 
white uniforms strolled the deck, tipping their hats to the passengers. 

Nobody asked who we were. Nobody paid us much attention. But there was 
something wrong. 

As the family of swimmers passed us, the dad told his kids: “We are on a 
cruise. We are having fun.” 

“Yes,” his three kids said in unison, their expressions blank. “We are having 
a blast. We will swim in the pool.” 

They wandered off. 

“Good morning,” a crew member told us, his eyes glazed. “We are all 
enjoying ourselves aboard the Princess Andromeda. Have a nice day.” He drifted 
away. 


“Percy, this is weird,” Annabeth whispered. “They’re all in some kind of 
trance.” 

Then we passed a cafeteria and saw our first monster. It was a hellhound-a 
black mastiff with its front paws up on the buffet line and its muzzle buried in 
the scrambled eggs. It must’ve been young, because it was small compared to 
most-no bigger than a grizzly bear. Still, my blood turned cold. I’d almost gotten 
killed by one of those before. 

The weird thing was: a middle-aged couple was standing in the buffet line 
right behind the devil dog, patiently waiting their turn for the eggs. They didn’t 
seem to notice anything out of the ordinary. 

“Not hungry anymore,” Tyson murmured. 

Before Annabeth or I could reply, a reptilian voice came from down the 
corridor, “Ssssix more joined yesssterday.” 

Annabeth gestured frantically toward the nearest hiding place-the women’s 
room-and all three of us ducked inside. I was so freaked out it didn’t even occur 
to me to be embarrassed. 

Something-or more like two somethings-slithered past the bathroom door, 
making sounds like sandpaper against the carpet. 

“Yesss,” a second reptilian voice said. “He drawssss them. Ssssoon we will 
be sssstrong.” 

The things slithered into the cafeteria with a cold hissing that might have 
been snake laughter. 

Annabeth looked at me. “We have to get out of here.” 

“You think I want to be in the girls’ restroom?” 

“T mean the ship, Percy! We have to get off the ship.” 

“Smells bad,” Tyson agreed. “And dogs eat all the eggs. Annabeth is right. 
We must leave the restroom and ship.” 

I shuddered. If Annabeth and Tyson were actually agreeing about 
something, I figured I’d better listen. 

Then I heard another voice outside-one that chilled me worse than any 
monster’s. 

“-only a matter of time. Don’t push me, Agrius 

It was Luke, beyond a doubt. I could never forget his voice. 

“T’m not pushing you!” another guy growled. His voice was deeper and 
even angrier than Luke’s. “I’m just saying, if this gamble doesn’t pay off-“ 

“Tt’ll pay off,” Luke snapped. “They’Il take the bait. Now, come, we’ve got 
to get to the admiralty suite and check on the casket.” 

Their voices receded down the corridor. 

Tyson whimpered. “Leave now?” 


” 
I 


Annabeth and I exchanged looks and came to a silent agreement. 

“We can’t,” I told Tyson. 

“We have to find out what Luke is up to,” Annabeth agreed. “And if 
possible, we’re going to beat him up, bind him in chains, and drag him to Mount 
Olympus.” 


NINE 


I HAVE THE WORST 


FAMILY REUNION EVER 


Annabeth volunteered to go alone since she had the cap of invisibility, but I 
convinced her it was too dangerous. Either we all went together, or nobody went. 

“Nobody!” Tyson voted. “Please?” 

But in the end he came along, nervously chewing on his huge fingernails. 
We stopped at our cabin long enough to gather our stuff. We figured whatever 
happened, we would not be staying another night aboard the zombie cruise ship, 
even if they did have million-dollar bingo. I made sure Riptide was in my pocket 
and the vitamins and thermos from Hermes were at the top of my bag. I didn’t 
want Tyson to carry everything, but he insisted, and Annabeth told me not to 
worry about it. Tyson could carry three full duffel bags over his shoulder as 
easily as I could carry a backpack. 

We sneaked through the corridors, following the ship’s YOU ARE HERE 
signs toward the admiralty suite. Annabeth scouted ahead invisibly. We hid 
whenever someone passed by, but most of the people we saw were just glassy- 
eyed zombie passengers. 

As we came up the stairs to deck thirteen, where the admiralty suite was 
supposed to be, Annabeth hissed, “Hide!” and shoved us into a supply closet. 

I heard a couple of guys coming down the hall. 

“You see that Aethiopian drakon in the cargo hold?” one of them said. 

The other laughed. “Yeah, it’s awesome.” 

Annabeth was still invisible, but she squeezed my arm hard. I got a feeling I 
should know that second guy’s voice. 

“T hear they got two more coming,” the familiar voice said. “They keep 
arriving at this rate, oh, man-no contest!” 

The voices faded down the corridor. 

“That was Chris Rodriguez!” Annabeth took off her cap and turned visible. 
“You remember-from Cabin Eleven.” 

I sort of recalled Chris from the summer before. He was one of those 
undetermined campers who got stuck in the Hermes cabin because his Olympian 
dad or mom never claimed him. Now that I thought about it, I realized I hadn’t 
seen Chris at camp this summer. “What’s another half-blood doing here?” 

Annabeth shook her head, clearly troubled. 

We kept going down the corridor. I didn’t need maps anymore to know I 
was getting close to Luke. I sensed something cold and unpleasant-the presence 
of evil. 


“Percy.” Annabeth stopped suddenly. “Look.” 

She stood in front of a glass wall looking down into the multistory canyon 
that ran through the middle of the ship. At the bottom was the Promenade-a mall 
full of shops-but that’s not what had caught Annabeth’s attention. 

A group of monsters had assembled in front of the candy store: a dozen 
Laistrygonian giants like the ones who’d attacked me with dodge balls, two 
hellhounds, and a few even stranger creatures-humanoid females with twin 
serpent tails instead of legs. 

“Scythian Dracaenae,” Annabeth whispered. “Dragon women.” 

The monsters made a semicircle around a young guy in Greek armor who 
was hacking on a straw dummy. A lump formed in my throat when I realized the 
dummy was wearing an orange Camp Half-Blood T-shirt. As we watched, the 
guy in armor stabbed the dummy through its belly and ripped upward. Straw 
flew everywhere. The monsters cheered and howled. 

Annabeth stepped away from the window. Her face was ashen. 

“Come on,” I told her, trying to sound braver than I felt. “The sooner we 
find Luke the better.” 

At the end of the hallway were double oak doors that looked like they must 
lead somewhere important. When we were thirty feet away, Tyson stopped. 
“Voices inside.” 

“You can hear that far?” I asked. 

Tyson closed his eye like he was concentrating hard. Then his voice 
changed, becoming a husky approximation of Luke’s. “-the prophecy ourselves. 
The fools won’t know which way to turn.” 

Before I could react, Tyson’s voice changed again, becoming deeper and 
gruffer, like the other guy we’d heard talking to Luke outside the cafeteria. “You 
really think the old horseman is gone for good?” 

Tyson laughed Luke’s laugh. “They can’t trust him. Not with the skeletons 
in his closet. The poisoning of the tree was the final straw.” 

Annabeth shivered. “Stop that, Tyson! How do you do that? It’s creepy.” 

Tyson opened his eye and looked puzzled. “Just listening.” 

“Keep going,” I said. “What else are they saying?” 

Tyson closed his eye again. 

He hissed in the gruff man’s voice: “Quiet!” Then Luke’s voice, 
whispering: “Are you sure?” 

“Yes,” Tyson said in the gruff voice. “Right outside.” 

Too late, I realized what was happening. 

I just had time to say, “Run!” when the doors of the stateroom burst open 
and there was Luke, flanked by two hairy giants armed with javelins, their 


bronze tips aimed right at our chests. 

“Well,” Luke said with a crooked smile. “If it isn’t my two favorite cousins. 
Come right in.” 

The stateroom was beautiful, and it was horrible. 

The beautiful part: Huge windows curved along the back wall, looking out 
over the stern of the ship. Green sea and blue sky stretched all the way to the 
horizon. A Persian rug covered the floor. Two plush sofas occupied the middle of 
the room, with a canopied bed in one corner and a mahogany dining table in the 
other. The table was loaded with food-pizza boxes, bottles of soda, and a stack of 
roast beef sandwiches on a silver platter. 

The horrible part: On a velvet dais at the back of the room lay a ten-foot- 
long golden casket. A sarcophagus, engraved with Ancient Greek scenes of cities 
in flames and heroes dying grisly deaths. Despite the sunlight streaming through 
the windows, the casket made the whole room feel cold. 

“Well,” Luke said, spreading his arms proudly. “A little nicer than Cabin 
Eleven, huh?” 

He’d changed since the last summer. Instead of Bermuda shorts and a T- 
shirt, he wore a button-down shirt, khaki pants, and leather loafers. His sandy 
hair, which used to be so unruly, was now clipped short. He looked like an evil 
male model, showing off what the fashionable college-age villain was wearing to 
Harvard this year. 

He still had the scar under his eye-a jagged white line from his battle with a 
dragon. And propped against the sofa was his magical sword, Backbiter, glinting 
strangely with its half-steel, half-Celestial bronze blade that could kill both 
mortals and monsters. 

“Sit,” he told us. He waved his hand and three dining chairs scooted 
themselves into the center of the room. 

None of us sat. 

Luke’s large friends were still pointing their javelins at us. They looked like 
twins, but they weren’t human. They stood about eight feet tall, for one thing, 
and wore only blue jeans, probably because their enormous chests were already 
shag-carpeted with thick brown fur. They had claws for fingernails, feet like 
paws. Their noses were snoutlike, and their teeth were all pointed canines. 

“Where are my manners?” Luke said smoothly. “These are my assistants, 
Agrius and Oreius. Perhaps you’ve heard of them.” 

I said nothing. Despite the javelins pointed at me, it wasn’t the bear twins 
who scared me. 

I’d imagined meeting Luke again many times since he’d tried to kill me last 
summer. I’d pictured myself boldly standing up to him, challenging him to a 


duel. But now that we were face-to-face, I could barely stop my hands from 
shaking. 

“You don’t know Agrius and Oreius’s story?” Luke asked. “Their mother 
... well, it’s sad, really. Aphrodite ordered the young woman to fall in love. She 
refused and ran to Artemis for help. Artemis let her become one of her maiden 
huntresses, but Aphrodite got her revenge. She bewitched the young woman into 
falling in love with a bear. When Artemis found out, she abandoned the girl in 
disgust. Typical of the gods, wouldn’t you say? They fight with one another and 
the poor humans get caught in the middle. The girl’s twin sons here, Agrius and 
Oreius, have no love for Olympus. They like half-bloods well enough, though 


“For lunch,” Agrius growled. His gruff voice was the one I’d heard talking 
with Luke earlier. 

“Hehe! Hehe!” His brother Oreius laughed, licking his furlined lips. He 
kept laughing like he was having an asthmatic fit until Luke and Agrius both 
stared at him. 

“Shut up, you idiot!” Agrius growled. “Go punish yourself!” 

Oreius whimpered. He trudged over to the corner of the room, slumped 
onto a stool, and banged his forehead against the dining table, making the silver 
plates rattle. 

Luke acted like this was perfectly normal behavior. He made himself 
comfortable on the sofa and propped his feet up on the coffee table. “Well, 
Percy, we let you survive another year. I hope you appreciated it. How’s your 
mom? How’s school?” 

“You poisoned Thalia’s tree.” 

Luke sighed. “Right to the point, eh? Okay, sure I poisoned the tree. So 
what?” 

“How could you?” Annabeth sounded so angry I thought she’d explode. 
“Thalia saved your life! Our lives! How could you dishonor her-“ 

“I didn’t dishonor her!” Luke snapped. “The gods dishonored her, 
Annabeth! If Thalia were alive, she’d be on my side.” 

“Liar!” 

“Tf you knew what was coming, you’d understand-“ 

“T understand you want to destroy the camp!” she yelled. “You’re a 
monster!” 

Luke shook his head. “The gods have blinded you. Can’t you imagine a 
world without them, Annabeth? What good is that ancient history you study? 
Three thousand years of baggage! The West is rotten to the core. It has to be 
destroyed. Join me! We can start the world anew. We could use your intelligence, 


Annabeth.” 

“Because you have none of your own!” 

His eyes narrowed. “I know you, Annabeth. You deserve better than tagging 
along on some hopeless quest to save the camp. Half-Blood Hill will be overrun 
by monsters within the month. The heroes who survive will have no choice but 
to join us or be hunted to extinction. You really want to be on a losing team ... 
with company like this?” Luke pointed at Tyson. 

“Hey!” I said. 

“Traveling with a Cyclops,” Luke chided. “Talk about dishonoring Thalia’s 
memory! I’m surprised at you, Annabeth. You of all people-“ 

“Stop it!” she shouted. 

I didn’t know what Luke was talking about, but Annabeth buried her head 
in her hands like she was about to cry. 

“Leave her alone,” I said. “And leave Tyson out this.” 

Luke laughed. “Oh, yeah, I heard. Your father claimed him.” 

I must have looked surprised, because Luke smiled. “Yes, Percy, I know all 
about that. And about your plan to find the Fleece. What were those coordinates, 
again ... 30, 31, 75, 12? You see, I still have friends at camp who keep me 
posted.” 

“Spies, you mean.” 

He shrugged. “How many insults from your father can you stand, Percy? 
You think he’s grateful to you? You think Poseidon cares for you any more than 
he cares for this monster?” 

Tyson clenched his fists and made a rumbling sound down in his throat. 

Luke just chuckled. “The gods are so using you, Percy. Do you have any 
idea what’s in store for you if you reach your sixteenth birthday? Has Chiron 
even told you the prophecy?” 

I wanted to get in Luke’s face and tell him off, but as usual, he knew just 
how to throw me off balance. 

Sixteenth birthday? 

I mean, I knew Chiron had received a prophecy from the Oracle many years 
ago. I knew part of it was about me. But, if I reached my sixteenth birthday? I 
didn’t like the sound of that. 

“T know what I need to know,” I managed. “Like, who my enemies are.” 

“Then you’re a fool.” 

Tyson smashed the nearest dining chair to splinters. “Percy is not a fool!” 

Before I could stop him, he charged Luke. His fists came down toward 
Luke’s head-a double overhead blow that would’ve knocked a hole in titanium- 
but the bear twins intercepted. They each caught one of Tyson’s arms and 


stopped him cold. They pushed him back and Tyson stumbled. He fell to the 
carpet so hard the deck shook. 

“Too bad, Cyclops,” Luke said. “Looks like my grizzly friends together are 
more than a match for your strength. Maybe I should let them-“ 

“Luke,” I cut in. “Listen to me. Your father sent us.” 

His face turned the color of pepperoni. “Don’t-even- mention him.” 

“He told us to take this boat. I thought it was just for a ride, but he sent us 
here to find you. He told me he won’t give up on you, no matter how angry you 
are.” 

“Angry?” Luke roared. “Give up on me? He abandoned me, Percy! I want 
Olympus destroyed! Every throne crushed to rubble! You tell Hermes it’s going 
to happen, too. Each time a half-blood joins us, the Olympians grow weaker and 
we grow stronger. He grows stronger.” Luke pointed to the gold sarcophagus. 

The box creeped me out, but I was determined not to show it. “So?” I 
demanded. “What’s so special ...” 

Then it hit me, what might be inside the sarcophagus. The temperature in 
the room seemed to drop twenty degrees. “Whoa, you don’t mean-“ 

“He is re-forming,” Luke said. “Little by little, we’re calling his life force 
out of the pit. With every recruit who pledges our cause, another small piece 
appears-“ 

“That’s disgusting!” Annabeth said. 

Luke sneered at her. “Your mother was born from Zeus’s split skull, 
Annabeth. I wouldn’t talk. Soon there will be enough of the titan lord so that we 
can make him whole again. We will piece together a new body for him, a work 
worthy of the forges of Hephaestus.” 

“You’re insane,” Annabeth said. 

“Join us and you’ll be rewarded. We have powerful friends, sponsors rich 
enough to buy this cruise ship and much more. Percy, your mother will never 
have to work again. You can buy her a mansion. You can have power, fame- 
whatever you want. Annabeth, you can realize your dream of being an architect. 
You can build a monument to last a thousand years. A temple to the lords of the 
next age!” 

“Go to Tartarus,” she said. 

Luke sighed. “A shame.” 

He picked up something that looked like a TV remote and pressed a red 
button. Within seconds the door of the stateroom opened and two uniformed 
crew members came in, armed with nightsticks. They had the same glassy-eyed 
look as the other mortals I’d seen, but I had a feeling this wouldn’t make them 
any less dangerous in a fight. 


“Ah, good, security,” Luke said, “I’m afraid we have some stowaways.” 

“Yes, sir,” they said dreamily. 

Luke turned to Oreius. “It’s time to feed the Aethiopian drakon. Take these 
fools below and show them how it’s done.” 

Oreius grinned stupidly. “Hehe! Hehe!” 

“Let me go, too,” Agrius grumbled. “My brother is worthless. That 
Cyclops-“ 

“Ts no threat,” Luke said. He glanced back at the golden casket, as if 
something were troubling him. “Agrius, stay here. We have important matters to 
discuss.” 

“But-“ 

“Oreius, don’t fail me. Stay in the hold to make sure the drakon is properly 
fed.” 

Oreius prodded us with his javelin and herded us out of the stateroom, 
followed by the two human security guards. 

As I walked down the corridor with Oreius’s javelin poking me in the back, 
I thought about what Luke had said-that the bear twins together were a match for 
Tyson’s strength. But maybe separately ... 

We exited the corridor amidships and walked across an open deck lined 
with lifeboats. I knew the ship well enough to realize this would be our last look 
at sunlight. Once we got to the other side, we’d take the elevator down into the 
hold, and that would be it. 

I looked at Tyson and said, “Now.” 

Thank the gods, he understood. He turned and smacked Oreius thirty feet 
backward into the swimming pool, right into the middle of the zombie tourist 
family. 

“Ah!” the kids yelled in unison. “We are not having a blast in the pool!” 

One of the security guards drew his nightstick, but Annabeth knocked the 
wind out of him with a well-placed kick. The other guard ran for the nearest 
alarm box. 

“Stop him!” Annabeth yelled, but it was too late. 

Just before I banged him on head with a deck chair, he hit the alarm. 

Red lights flashed. Sirens wailed. 

“Lifeboat!” I yelled. 

We ran for the nearest one. 

By the time we got the cover off, monsters and more security men were 
swarming the deck, pushing aside tourists and waiters with trays of tropical 
drinks. A guy in Greek armor drew his sword and charged, but slipped in a 
puddle of pifia colada. Laistrygonian archers assembled on the deck above us, 


notching arrows in their enormous bows. 

“How do you launch this thing?” screamed Annabeth. 

A hellhound leaped at me, but Tyson slammed it aside with a fire 
extinguisher. 

“Get in!” I yelled. I uncapped Riptide and slashed the first volley of arrows 
out of the air. Any second we would be overwhelmed. 

The lifeboat was hanging over the side of the ship, high above the water. 
Annabeth and Tyson were having no luck with the release pulley. 

I jumped in beside them. 

“Hold on!” I yelled, and I cut the ropes. 

A shower of arrows whistled over our heads as we free-fell toward the 
ocean. 


TEN 


WE HITCH A RIDE WITH 


DEAD CONFEDERATES 


“Thermos!” I screamed as we hurtled toward the water. 

“What?” Annabeth must’ve thought I’d lost my mind. She was holding on 
to the boat straps for dear life, her hair flying straight up like a torch. 

But Tyson understood. He managed to open my duffel bag and take out 
Hermes’s magical thermos without losing his grip on it or the boat. 

Arrows and javelins whistled past us. 

I grabbed the thermos and hoped I was doing the right thing. “Hang on!” 

“T am hanging on!” Annabeth yelled. 

“Tighter!” 

I hooked my feet under the boat’s inflatable bench, and as Tyson grabbed 
Annabeth and me by the backs of our shirts, I gave the thermos cap a quarter 
turn. 

Instantly, a white sheet of wind jetted out of the thermos and propelled us 
sideways, turning our downward plummet into a forty-five-degree crash landing. 

The wind seemed to laugh as it shot from the thermos, like it was glad to be 
free. As we hit the ocean, we bumped once, twice, skipping like a stone, then we 
were whizzing along like a speed boat, salt spray in our faces and nothing but 
sea ahead. 

I heard a wail of outrage from the ship behind us, but we were already out 
of weapon range. The Princess Andromeda faded to the size of a white toy boat 
in the distance, and then it was gone. 

As we raced over the sea, Annabeth and I tried to send an Iris-message to 
Chiron. We figured it was important we let somebody know what Luke was 
doing, and we didn’t know who else to trust. 

The wind from the thermos stirred up a nice sea spray that made a rainbow 
in the sunlight-perfect for an Iris-message-but our connection was still poor. 
When Annabeth threw a gold drachma into the mist and prayed for the rainbow 
goddess to show us Chiron, his face appeared all right, but there was some kind 
of weird strobe light flashing in the background and rock music blaring, like he 
was at a dance club. 

We told him about sneaking away from camp, and Luke and the Princess 
Andromeda and the golden box for Kronos’s remains, but between the noise on 
his end and the rushing wind and water on our end, I’m not sure how much he 
heard. 

“Percy,” Chiron yelled, “you have to watch out for-“ 


His voice was drowned out by loud shouting behind him-a bunch of voices 
whooping it up like Comanche warriors. 

“What?” I yelled. 

“Curse my relatives!” Chiron ducked as a plate flew over his head and 
shattered somewhere out of sight. “Annabeth, you shouldn’t have let Percy leave 
camp! But if you do get the Fleece-“ 

“Yeah, baby!” somebody behind Chiron yelled. “Woo-hoooooo!” 

The music got cranked up, subwoofers so loud it made our boat vibrate. 

“-Miami,” Chiron was yelling. “I’ll try to keep watch-“ 

Our misty screen smashed apart like someone on the other side had thrown 
a bottle at it, and Chiron was gone. 

An hour later we spotted land-a long stretch of beach lined with high-rise 
hotels. The water became crowded with fishing boats and tankers. A coast guard 
cruiser passed on our starboard side, then turned like it wanted a second look. I 
guess it isn’t every day they see a yellow lifeboat with no engine going a 
hundred knots an hour, manned by three kids. 

“That’s Virginia Beach!” Annabeth said as we approached the shoreline. 
“Oh my gods, how did the Princess Andromeda travel so far overnight? That’s 
like-“ 

“Five hundred and thirty nautical miles,” I said. 

She stared at me. “How did you know that?” 

“T-I’m not sure.” 

Annabeth thought for a moment. “Percy, what’s our position?” 

“36 degrees, 44 minutes north, 76 degrees, 2 minutes west,” I said 
immediately. Then I shook my head. “Whoa. How did I know that?” 

“Because of your dad,” Annabeth guessed. “When you’re at sea, you have 
perfect bearings. That is so cool.” 

I wasn’t sure about that. I didn’t want to be a human GPS unit. But before I 
could say anything, Tyson tapped my shoulder. “Other boat is coming.” 

I looked back. The coast guard vessel was definitely on our tail now. Its 
lights were flashing and it was gaining speed. 

“We can’t let them catch us,” I said. “They’!l ask too many questions.” 

“Keep going into Chesapeake Bay,” Annabeth said. “I know a place we can 
hide.” 

I didn’t ask what she meant, or how she knew the area so well. I risked 
loosening the thermos cap a little more, and a fresh burst of wind sent us 
rocketing around the northern tip of Virginia Beach into Chesapeake Bay. The 
coast guard boat fell farther and farther behind. We didn’t slow down until the 
shores of the bay narrowed on either side, and I realized we’d entered the mouth 


of a river. 

I could feel the change from salt water to fresh water. Suddenly I was tired 
and frazzled, like I was coming down off a sugar high. I didn’t know where I 
was anymore, or which way to steer the boat. It was a good thing Annabeth was 
directing me. 

“There,” she said. “Past that sandbar.” 

We veered into a swampy area choked with marsh grass. I beached the 
lifeboat at the foot of a giant cypress. 

Vine-covered trees loomed above us. Insects chirred in the woods. The air 
was muggy and hot, and steam curled off the river. Basically, it wasn’t 
Manhattan, and I didn’t like it. 

“Come on,” Annabeth said. “It’s just down the bank.” 

“What is?” I asked. 

“Just follow.” She grabbed a duffel bag. “And we’d better cover the boat. 
We don’t want to draw attention.” 

After burying the lifeboat with branches, Tyson and I followed Annabeth 
along the shore, our feet sinking in red mud. A snake slithered past my shoe and 
disappeared into the grass. 

“Not a good place,” Tyson said. He swatted the mosquitoes that were 
forming a buffet line on his arm. 

After another few minutes, Annabeth said, “Here.” 

All I saw was a patch of brambles. Then Annabeth moved aside a woven 
circle of branches, like a door, and I realized I was looking into a camouflaged 
shelter. 

The inside was big enough for three, even with Tyson being the third. The 
walls were woven from plant material, like a Native American hut, but they 
looked pretty waterproof. Stacked in the corner was everything you could want 
for a campout-sleeping bags, blankets, an ice chest, and a kerosene lamp. There 
were demigod provisions, too-bronze javelin tips, a quiver full of arrows, an 
extra sword, and a box of ambrosia. The place smelled musty, like it had been 
vacant for a long time. 

“A half-blood hideout.” I looked at Annabeth in awe. You made this place?” 

“Thalia and I,” she said quietly. “And Luke.” 

That shouldn’t have bothered me. I mean, I knew Thalia and Luke had 
taken care of Annabeth when she was little. I knew the three of them had been 
runaways together, hiding from monsters, surviving on their own before Grover 
found them and tried to get them to Half-Blood Hill. But whenever Annabeth 
talked about the time she’d spent with them, I kind of felt ... I don’t know. 
Uncomfortable? 


No. That’s not the word. 

The word was jealous. 

“So ...” I said. “You don’t think Luke will look for us here?” 

She shook her head. “We made a dozen safe houses like this. I doubt Luke 
even remembers where they are. Or cares.” 

She threw herself down on the blankets and started going through her duffel 
bag. Her body language made it pretty clear she didn’t want to talk. 

“Um, Tyson?” I said. “Would you mind scouting around outside? Like, look 
for a wilderness convenience store or something?” 

“Convenience store?” 

“Yeah, for snacks. Powdered donuts or something. Just don’t go too far.” 

“Powdered donuts,” Tyson said earnestly. “I will look for powdered donuts 
in the wilderness.” He headed outside and started calling, “Here, donuts!” 

Once he was gone, I sat down across from Annabeth. “Hey, I’m sorry 
about, you know, seeing Luke.” 

“Tt’s not your fault.” She unsheathed her knife and started cleaning the 
blade with a rag. 

“He let us go too easily,” I said. 

I hoped I’d been imagining it, but Annabeth nodded. “I was thinking the 
same thing. What we overheard him say about a gamble, and ‘they’ll take the 
bait’... I think he was talking about us.” 

“The Fleece is the bait? Or Grover?” 

She studied the edge of her knife. “I don’t know, Percy. Maybe he wants the 
Fleece for himself. Maybe he’s hoping we’ll do the hard work and then he can 
steal it from us. I just can’t believe he would poison the tree.” 

“What did he mean,” I asked, “that Thalia would’ve been on his side?” 

“He’s wrong.” 

“You don’t sound sure.” 

Annabeth glared at me, and I started to wish I hadn’t asked her about this 
while she was holding a knife. 

“Percy, you know who you remind me of most? Thalia. You guys are so 
much alike it’s scary. I mean, either you would’ve been best friends or you 
would’ve strangled each other.” 

“Let’s go with ‘best friends. 

“Thalia got angry with her dad sometimes. So do you. Would you turn 
against Olympus because of that?” 

I stared at the quiver of arrows in the corner. “No.” 

“Okay, then. Neither would she. Luke’s wrong.” Annabeth stuck her knife 
blade into the dirt. 


399 


I wanted to ask her about the prophecy Luke had mentioned and what it had 
to do with my sixteenth birthday. But I figured she wouldn’t tell me. Chiron had 
made it pretty clear that I wasn’t allowed to hear it until the gods decided 
otherwise. 

“So what did Luke mean about Cyclopes?” I asked. “He said you of all 
people-“ 

“T know what he said. He ... he was talking about the real reason Thalia 
died.” 

I waited, not sure what to say. 

Annabeth drew a shaky breath. “You can never trust a Cyclops, Percy. Six 
years ago, on the night Grover was leading us to Half-Blood Hill-“ 

She was interrupted when the door of the hut creaked open. Tyson crawled 
in. 

“Powdered donuts!” he said proudly, holding up a pastry box. 

Annabeth stared at him. “Where did you get that? We’re in the middle of 
the wilderness. There’s nothing around for-“ 

“Fifty feet,” Tyson said. “Monster Donut shop-just over the hill!” 

“This is bad,” Annabeth muttered. 

We were crouching behind a tree, staring at the donut shop in the middle of 
the woods. It looked brand new, with brightly lit windows, a parking area, and a 
little road leading off into the forest, but there was nothing else around, and no 
cars parked in the lot. We could see one employee reading a magazine behind the 
cash register. That was it. On the store’s marquis, in huge black letters that even I 
could read, it said: 


MONSTER DONUT 


A cartoon ogre was taking a bite out of the O in MONSTER. The place 
smelled good, like fresh-baked chocolate donuts. 

“This shouldn’t be here,” Annabeth whispered. “It’s wrong.” 

“What?” I asked. “It’s a donut shop.” 

“Shhh!” 

“Why are we whispering? Tyson went in and bought a dozen. Nothing 
happened to him.” 

“He’s a monster.” 

“Aw, c’mon, Annabeth. Monster Donut doesn’t mean monsters! It’s a chain. 
We’ve got them in New York.” 

“A chain,” she agreed. “And don’t you think it’s strange that one appeared 
immediately after you told Tyson to get donuts? Right here in the middle of the 
woods?” 

I thought about it. It did seem a little weird, but, I mean, donut shops 
weren’t real high on my list of sinister forces. 

“Tt could be a nest,” Annabeth explained. 

Tyson whimpered. I doubt he understood what Annabeth was saying any 
better than I did, but her tone was making him nervous. He’d plowed through 
half a dozen donuts from his box and was getting powdered sugar all over his 
face. 

“A nest for what?” I asked. 

“Haven’t you ever wondered how franchise stores pop up so fast?” she 
asked. “One day there’s nothing and then the next day-boom, there’s a new 
burger place or a coffee shop or whatever? First a single store, then two, then 
four-exact replicas spreading across the country?” 

“Um, no. Never thought about it.” 

“Percy, some of the chains multiply so fast because all their locations are 
magically linked to the life force of a monster. Some children of Hermes figured 
out how to do it back in the 1950s. They breed-“ 

She froze. 

“What?” I demanded. “They breed what?” 

“No-sudden-moves,” Annabeth said, like her life depended on it. “Very 
slowly, turn around.” 

Then I heard it: a scraping noise, like something large dragging its belly 
through the leaves. 


I turned and saw a rhino-size thing moving through the shadows of the 
trees. It was hissing, its front half writhing in all different directions. I couldn’t 
understand what I was seeing at first. Then I realized the thing had multiple 
necks-at least seven, each topped with a hissing reptilian head. Its skin was 
leathery, and under each neck it wore a plastic bib that read: I’M A MONSTER 
DONUT KID! 

I took out my ballpoint pen, but Annabeth locked eyes with me-a silent 
warning. Not yet. 

I understood. A lot of monsters have terrible eyesight. It was possible the 
Hydra might pass us by. But if I uncapped my sword now, the bronze glow 
would certainly get its attention. 

We waited. 

The Hydra was only a few feet away. It seemed to be sniffing the ground 
and the trees like it was hunting for something. Then I noticed that two of the 
heads were ripping apart a piece of yellow canvas-one of our duffel bags. The 
thing had already been to our campsite. It was following our scent. 

My heart pounded. I’d seen a stuffed Hydra-head trophy at camp before, 
but that did nothing to prepare me for the real thing. Each head was diamond- 
shaped, like a rattlesnake’s, but the mouths were lined with jagged rows of 
sharklike teeth. 

Tyson was trembling. He stepped back and accidentally snapped a twig. 
Immediately, all seven heads turned toward us and hissed. 

“Scatter!” Annabeth yelled. She dove to the right. 

I rolled to the left. One of the Hydra heads spat an arc of green liquid that 
shot past my shoulder and splashed against an elm. The trunk smoked and began 
to disintegrate. The whole tree toppled straight toward Tyson, who still hadn’t 
moved, petrified by the monster that was now right in front of him. 

“Tyson!” I tackled him with all my might, knocking him aside just as the 
Hydra lunged and the tree crashed on top of two of its heads. 

The Hydra stumbled backward, yanking its heads free then wailing in 
outrage at the fallen tree. All seven heads shot acid, and the elm melted into a 
steaming pool of muck. 

“Move!” I told Tyson. I ran to one side and uncapped Riptide, hoping to 
draw the monster’s attention. 

It worked. 

The sight of celestial bronze is hateful to most monsters. As soon as my 
glowing blade appeared, the Hydra whipped toward it with all its heads, hissing 
and baring its teeth. 

The good news: Tyson was momentarily out of danger. The bad news: I was 


about to be melted into a puddle of goo. 

One of the heads snapped at me experimentally. Without thinking, I swung 
my sword. 

“No!” Annabeth yelled. 

Too late. I sliced the Hydra’s head clean off. It rolled away into the grass, 
leaving a flailing stump, which immediately stopped bleeding and began to swell 
like a balloon. 

In a matter of seconds the wounded neck split into two necks, each of 
which grew a full-size head. Now I was looking at an eight-headed Hydra. 

“Percy!” Annabeth scolded. “You just opened another Monster Donut shop 
somewhere!” 

I dodged a spray of acid. “I’m about to die and you’re worried about that? 
How do we kill it?” 

“Fire!” Annabeth said. “We have to have fire!” 

As soon as she said that, I remembered the story. The Hydra’s heads would 
only stop multiplying if we burned the stumps before they regrew. That’s what 
Heracles had done, anyway. But we had no fire. 

I backed up toward river. The Hydra followed. 

Annabeth moved in on my left and tried to distract one of the heads, 
parrying its teeth with her knife, but another head swung sideways like a club 
and knocked her into the muck. 

“No hitting my friends!” Tyson charged in, putting himself between the 
Hydra and Annabeth. As Annabeth got to her feet, Tyson started smashing at the 
monster heads with his fists so fast it reminded me of the whack-a-mole game at 
the arcade. But even Tyson couldn’t fend off the Hydra forever. 

We kept inching backward, dodging acid splashes and deflecting snapping 
heads without cutting them off, but I knew we were only postponing our deaths. 
Eventually, we would make a mistake and the thing would kill us. 

Then I heard a strange sound-a chug-chug-chug that at first I thought was 
my heartbeat. It was so powerful it made the riverbank shake. 

“What’s that noise?” Annabeth shouted, keeping her eyes on the Hydra. 

“Steam engine,” Tyson said. 

“What?” I ducked as the Hydra spat acid over my head. 

Then from the river behind us, a familiar female voice shouted: “There! 
Prepare the thirty-two-pounder!” 

I didn’t dare look away from the Hydra, but if that was who I thought it was 
behind us, I figured we now had enemies on two fronts. 

A gravelly male voice said, “They’re too close, m’lady!” 

“Damn the heroes!” the girl said. “Full steam ahead!” 


“Aye, m’lady.” 

“Fire at will, Captain!” 

Annabeth understood what was happening a split second before I did. She 
yelled, “Hit the dirt!” and we dove for the ground as an earth-shattering BOOM 
echoed from the river. There was a flash of light, a column of smoke, and the 
Hydra exploded right in front of us, showering us with nasty green slime that 
vaporized as soon as it hit, the way monster guts tend to do. 

“Gross!” screamed Annabeth. 

“Steamship!” yelled Tyson. 

I stood, coughing from the cloud of gunpowder smoke that was rolling 
across the banks. 

Chugging toward us down the river was the strangest ship I’d ever seen. It 
rode low in the water like a submarine, its deck plated with iron. In the middle 
was a trapezoid-shaped casemate with slats on each side for cannons. A flag 
waved from the top-a wild boar and spear on a bloodred field. Lining the deck 
were zombies in gray uniforms-dead soldiers with shimmering faces that only 
partially covered their skulls, like the ghouls I’d seen in the Underworld 
guarding Hades’s palace. 

The ship was an ironclad. A Civil War battle cruiser. I could just make out 
the name along the prow in moss-covered letters: CSS Birmingham. 

And standing next to the smoking cannon that had almost killed us, wearing 
full Greek battle armor, was Clarisse. 

“Losers,” she sneered. “But I suppose I have to rescue you. Come aboard.” 


ELEVEN 


CLARISSE BLOWS UP 


EVERYTHING 


“You are in so much trouble,” Clarisse said. 

We’d just finished a ship tour we didn’t want, through dark rooms 
overcrowded with dead sailors. We’d seen the coal bunker, the boilers and 
engine, which huffed and groaned like it would explode any minute. We’d seen 
the pilothouse and the powder magazine and gunnery deck (Clarisse’s favorite) 
with two Dahlgren smoothbore cannons on the port and starboard sides and a 
Brooke nine-inch rifled gun fore and aft-all specially refitted to fire celestial 
bronze cannon balls. 

Everywhere we went, dead Confederate sailors stared at us, their ghostly 
bearded faces shimmering over their skulls. They approved of Annabeth because 
she told them she was from Virginia. They were interested in me, too, because 
my name was Jackson-like the Southern general-but then I ruined it by telling 
them I was from New York. They all hissed and muttered curses about Yankees. 

Tyson was terrified of them. All through the tour, he insisted Annabeth hold 
his hand, which she didn’t look too thrilled about. 

Finally, we were escorted to dinner. The CSS Birmingham captain’s 
quarters were about the size of a walk-in closet, but still much bigger than any 
other room on board. The table was set with white linen and china. Peanut butter 
and jelly sandwiches, potato chips, and Dr Peppers were served by skeletal 
crewmen. I didn’t want to eat anything served by ghosts, but my hunger 
overruled my fear. 

“Tantalus expelled you for eternity,” Clarisse told us smugly. “Mr. D said if 
any of you show your face at camp again, he’ll turn you into squirrels and run 
you over with his SUV.” 

“Did they give you this ship?” I asked. 

“Course not. My father did.” 

“Ares?” 

Clarisse sneered. “You think your daddy is the only one with sea power? 
The spirits on the losing side of every war owe a tribute to Ares. That’s their 
curse for being defeated. I prayed to my father for a naval transport and here it 
is. These guys will do anything I tell them. Won’t you, Captain?” 

The captain stood behind her looking stiff and angry. His glowing green 
eyes fixed me with a hungry stare. “If it means an end to this infernal war, 
ma’am, peace at last, we’ll do anything. Destroy anyone.” 

Clarisse smiled. “Destroy anyone. I like that.” 


Tyson gulped. 

“Clarisse,” Annabeth said, “Luke might be after the Fleece, too. We saw 
him. He’s got the coordinates and he’s heading south. He has a cruise ship full of 
monsters-“ 

“Good! I'll blow him out of the water.” 

“You don’t understand,” Annabeth said. We have to combine forces. Let us 
help you-“ 

“No!” Clarisse pounded the table. “This is my quest, smart girl! Finally I 
get to be the hero, and you two will not steal my chance.” 

“Where are your cabin mates?” I asked. “You were allowed to take two 
friends with you, weren’t you?” 

“They didn’t ... I let them stay behind. To protect the camp.” 

“You mean even the people in your own cabin wouldn’t help you?” 

“Shut up, Prissy! I don’t need them! Or you!” 

“Clarisse,” I said, “Tantalus is using you. He doesn’t care about the camp. 
He’d love to see it destroyed. He’s setting you up to fail.” 

“No! I don’t care what the Oracle-” She stopped herself. 

“What?” I said. “What did the Oracle tell you?” 

“Nothing.” Clarisse’s ears turned pink. “All you need to know is that I’m 
finishing this quest and you’re not helping. On the other hand, I can’t let you go 


“So we’re prisoners?” Annabeth asked. 

“Guests. For now.” Clarisse propped her feet up on the white linen 
tablecloth and opened another Dr Pepper. “Captain, take them below. Assign 
them hammocks on the berth deck. If they don’t mind their manners, show them 
how we deal with enemy spies.” 

The dream came as soon as I fell asleep. 

Grover was sitting at his loom, desperately unraveling his wedding train, 
when the boulder door rolled aside and the Cyclops bellowed, “Aha!” 

Grover yelped. “Dear! I didn’t-you were so quiet!” 

“Unraveling!” Polyphemus roared. “So that’s the problem!” 

“Oh, no. I-I wasn’t-“ 

“Come!” Polyphemus grabbed Grover around the waist and half carried, 
half dragged him through the tunnels of the cave. Grover struggled to keep his 
high heels on his hooves. His veil kept tilting on his head, threatening to come 
off. 

The Cyclops pulled him into a warehouse-size cavern decorated with sheep 
junk. There was a wool-covered La-Z-Boy recliner and a wool-covered 
television set, crude bookshelves loaded with sheep collectibles-coffee mugs 


shaped like sheep faces, plaster figurines of sheep, sheep board games, and 
picture books and action figures. The floor was littered with piles of sheep 
bones, and other bones that didn’t look exactly like sheep-the bones of satyrs 
who’d come to the island looking for Pan. 

Polyphemus set Grover down only long enough to move another huge 
boulder. Daylight streamed into the cave, and Grover whimpered with longing. 
Fresh air! 

The Cyclops dragged him outside to a hilltop overlooking the most 
beautiful island I’d ever seen. 

It was shaped kind of like a saddle cut in half by an ax. There were lush 
green hills on either side and a wide valley in the middle, split by a deep chasm 
that was spanned by a rope bridge. Beautiful streams rolled to the edge of the 
canyon and dropped off in rainbow-colored waterfalls. Parrots fluttered in the 
trees. Pink and purple flowers bloomed on the bushes. Hundreds of sheep grazed 
in the meadows, their wool glinting strangely like copper and silver coins. 

And at the center of the island, right next to the rope bridge, was an 
enormous twisted oak tree with something glittering in its lowest bough. 

The Golden Fleece. 

Even in a dream, I could feel its power radiating across the island, making 
the grass greener, the flowers more beautiful. I could almost smell the nature 
magic at work. I could only imagine how powerful the scent would be for a 
satyr. 

Grover whimpered. 

“Yes,” Polyphemus said proudly. “See over there? Fleece is the prize of my 
collection! Stole it from heroes long ago, and ever since-free food! Satyrs come 
from all over the world, like moths to flame. Satyrs good eating! And now-“ 

Polyphemus scooped up a wicked set of bronze shears. 

Grover yelped, but Polyphemus just picked up the nearest sheep like it was 
a stuffed animal and shaved off its wool. He handed a fluffy mass of it to Grover. 

“Put that on the spinning wheel!” he said proudly. “Magic. Cannot be 
unraveled.” 

“Oh ... well...” 

“Poor Honeypie!” Polyphemus grinned. “Bad weaver. Ha-ha! Not to worry. 
That thread will solve problem. Finish wedding train by tomorrow!” 

“Tsn’t that ... thoughtful of you!” 

“Hehe.” 

“But-but, dear,” Grover gulped, “what if someone were to rescue-I mean 
attack this island?” Grover looked straight at me, and I knew he was asking for 
my benefit. “What would keep them from marching right up here to your cave?” 


“Wifey scared! So cute! Not to worry. Polyphemus has state-of-the-art 
security system. Have to get through my pets.” 

“Pets?” 

Grover looked across the island, but there was nothing to see except sheep 
grazing peacefully in the meadows. 

“And then,” Polyphemus growled, “they would have to get through me!” 

He pounded his fist against the nearest rock, which cracked and split in 
half. “Now, come!” he shouted. “Back to the cave.” 

Grover looked about ready to cry-so close to freedom, but so hopelessly far. 
Tears welled in his eyes as the boulder door rolled shut, sealing him once again 
in the stinky torch-lit dankness of the Cyclops’s cave. 

I woke to alarm bells ringing throughout the ship. 

The captain’s gravelly voice: “All hands on deck! Find Lady Clarisse! 
Where is that girl?” 

Then his ghostly face appeared above me. “Get up, Yankee. Your friends 
are already above. We are approaching the entrance.” 

“The entrance to what?” 

He gave me a skeletal smile. “The Sea of Monsters, of course.” 

I stuffed my few belongings that had survived the Hydra into a sailor’s 
canvas knapsack and slung it over my shoulder. I had a sneaking suspicion that 
one way or another I would not be spending another night aboard the CSS 
Birmingham. 

I was on my way upstairs when something made me freeze. A presence 
nearby-something familiar and unpleasant. For no particular reason, I felt like 
picking a fight. I wanted to punch a dead Confederate. The last time I’d felt like 
that kind of anger ... 

Instead of going up, I crept to the edge of the ventilation grate and peered 
down into the boiler deck. 

Clarisse was standing right below me, talking to an image that shimmered 
in the steam from the boilers-a muscular man in black leather biker clothes, with 
a military haircut, red-tinted sunglasses, and a knife strapped to his side. 

My fists clenched. It was my least favorite Olympian: Ares, the god of war. 

“T don’t want excuses, little girl!” he growled. 

“Y-yes, father,” Clarisse mumbled. 

“You don’t want to see me mad, do you?” 

“No, father.” 

“No, father,’ Ares mimicked. “You’re pathetic. I should’ve let one of my 
sons take this quest.” 

“T’ll succeed!” Clarisse promised, her voice trembling. “I’ll make you 


proud.” 

“You’d better,” he warned. “You asked me for this quest, girl. If you let that 
slimeball Jackson kid steal it from you-“ 

“But the Oracle said-“ 

“T DON’T CARE WHAT IT SAID!” Ares bellowed with such force that his 
image shimmered. “You will succeed. And if you don’t ...” 

He raised his fist. Even though he was only a figure in the steam, Clarisse 
flinched. 

“Do we understand each other?” Ares growled. 

The alarm bells rang again. I heard voices coming toward me, officers 
yelling orders to ready the cannons. 

I crept back from the ventilation grate and made my way upstairs to join 
Annabeth and Tyson on the spar deck. 

“What’s wrong?” Annabeth asked me. “Another dream?” 

I nodded, but I didn’t say anything. I didn’t know what to think about what 
I’d seen downstairs. It bothered me almost as much as the dream about Grover. 

Clarisse came up the stairs right after me. I tried not to look at her. 

She grabbed a pair of binoculars from a zombie officer and peered toward 
the horizon. “At last. Captain, full steam ahead!” 

I looked in the same direction as she was, but I couldn’t see much. The sky 
was overcast. The air was hazy and humid, like steam from an iron. If I squinted 
real hard, I could just make out a couple of dark fuzzy splotches in the distance. 

My nautical senses told me we were somewhere off the coast of northern 
Florida, so we’d come a long way overnight, farther than any mortal ship 
should’ve been able to travel. 

The engine groaned as we increased speed. 

Tyson muttered nervously, “Too much strain on the pistons. Not meant for 
deep water.” 

I wasn’t sure how he knew that, but it made me nervous. 

After a few more minutes, the dark splotches ahead of us came into focus. 
To the north, a huge mass of rock rose out of the sea-an island with cliffs at least 
a hundred feet tall. About half a mile south of that, the other patch of darkness 
was a storm brewing. The sky and sea boiled together in a roaring mass. 

“Hurricane?” Annabeth asked. 

“No,” Clarisse said. “Charybdis.” 

Annabeth paled. “Are you crazy?” 

“Only way into the Sea of Monsters. Straight between Charybdis and her 
sister Scylla.” Clarisse pointed to the top of the cliffs, and I got the feeling 
something lived up there that I did not want to meet. 


“What do you mean the only way?” I asked. “The sea is wide open! Just 
sail around them.” 

Clarisse rolled her eyes. “Don’t you know anything? If I tried to sail around 
them, they would just appear in my path again. If you want to get into the Sea of 
Monsters, you have to sail through them.” 

“What about the Clashing Rocks?” Annabeth said. “That’s another gateway. 
Jason used it.” 

“T can’t blow apart rocks with my cannons,” Clarisse said. “Monsters, on 
the other hand ...” 

“You are crazy,” Annabeth decided. 

“Watch and learn, Wise Girl.” Clarisse turned to the captain. “Set course for 
Charybdis!” 

“Aye, m’lady.” 

The engine groaned, the iron plating rattled, and the ship began to pick up 
speed. 

“Clarisse,” I said, “Charybdis sucks up the sea. Isn’t that the story?” 

“And spits it back out again, yeah.” 

“What about Scylla?” 

“She lives in a cave, up on those cliffs. If we get too close, her snaky heads 
will come down and start plucking sailors off the ship.” 

“Choose Scylla then,” I said. “Everybody goes below deck and we chug 
right past.” 

“No!” Clarisse insisted. “If Scylla doesn’t get her easy meat, she might pick 
up the whole ship. Besides, she’s too high to make a good target. My cannons 
can’t shoot straight up. Charybdis just sits there at the center of her whirlwind. 
We’re going to steam straight toward her, train our guns on her, and blow her to 
Tartarus!” 

She said it with such relish I almost wanted to believe her. 

The engine hummed. The boilers were heating up so much I could feel the 
deck getting warm beneath my feet. The smokestacks billowed. The red Ares 
flag whipped in the wind. 

As we got closer to the monsters, the sound of Charybdis got louder and 
louder-a horrible wet roar like the galaxy’s biggest toilet being flushed. Every 
time Charybdis inhaled, the ship shuddered and lurched forward. Every time she 
exhaled, we rose in the water and were buffeted by ten-foot waves. 

I tried to time the whirlpool. As near as I could figure, it took Charybdis 
about three minutes to suck up and destroy everything within a half-mile radius. 
To avoid her, we would have to skirt right next to Scylla’s cliffs. And as bad as 
Scylla might be, those cliffs were looking awfully good to me. 


Undead sailors calmly went about their business on the spar deck. I guess 
they’d fought a losing cause before, so this didn’t bother them. Or maybe they 
didn’t care about getting destroyed because they were already deceased. Neither 
thought made me feel any better. 

Annabeth stood next to me, gripping the rail. “You still have your thermos 
full of wind?” 

I nodded. “But it’s too dangerous to use with a whirlpool like that. More 
wind might just make things worse.” 

“What about controlling the water?” she asked. “You’re Poseidon’s son. 
You’ve done it before.” 

She was right. I closed my eyes and tried to calm the sea, but I couldn’t 
concentrate. Charybdis was too loud and powerful. The waves wouldn’t respond. 

“T-I can’t,” I said miserably. 

“We need a backup plan,” Annabeth said. “This isn’t going to work.” 

“Annabeth is right,” Tyson said. “Engine’s no good.” 

“What do you mean?” she asked. 

“Pressure. Pistons need fixing.” 

Before he could explain, the cosmic toilet flushed with a mighty roaaar! 
The ship lurched forward and I was thrown to the deck. We were in the 
whirlpool. 

“Full reverse!” Clarisse screamed above the noise. The sea churned around 
us, waves crashing over the deck. The iron plating was now so hot it steamed. 
“Get us within firing range! Make ready starboard cannons!” 

Dead Confederates rushed back and forth. The propeller grinded into 
reverse, trying to slow the ship, but we kept sliding toward the center of the 
vortex. 

A zombie sailor burst out of the hold and ran to Clarisse. His gray uniform 
was smoking. His beard was on fire. “Boiler room overheating, ma’am! She’s 
going to blow!” 

“Well, get down there and fix it!” 

“Can’t!” the sailor yelled. “We’re vaporizing in the heat.” 

Clarisse pounded the side of the casemate. “All I need is a few more 
minutes! Just enough to get in range!” 

“We’re going in too fast,” the captain said grimly. “Prepare yourself for 
death.” 

“No!” Tyson bellowed. “I can fix it.” 

Clarisse looked at him incredulously. “You?” 

“He’s a Cyclops,” Annabeth said. “He’s immune to fire. And he knows 
mechanics.” 


“Go!” yelled Clarisse. 

“Tyson, no!” I grabbed his arm. “It’s too dangerous!” 

He patted my hand. “Only way, brother.” His expression was determined- 
confident, even. I’d never seen him look like this before. “I will fix it. Be right 
back.” 

As I watched him follow the smoldering sailor down the hatch, I had a 
terrible feeling. I wanted to run after him, but the ship lurched again-and then I 
saw Charybdis. 

She appeared only a few hundred yards away, through a swirl of mist and 
smoke and water. The first thing I noticed was the reef-a black crag of coral with 
a fig tree clinging to the top, an oddly peaceful thing in the middle of a 
maelstrom. All around it, water curved into a funnel, like light around a black 
hole. Then I saw the horrible thing anchored to the reef just below the waterline- 
an enormous mouth with slimy lips and mossy teeth the size of rowboats. And 
worse, the teeth had braces, bands of corroded scummy metal with pieces of fish 
and driftwood and floating garbage stuck between them. 

Charybdis was an orthodontist’s nightmare. She was nothing but a huge 
black maw with bad teeth alignment and a serious overbite, and she’d done 
nothing for centuries but eat without brushing after meals. As I watched, the 
entire sea around her was sucked into the void-sharks, schools of fish, a giant 
squid. And I realized that in a few seconds, the CSS Birmingham would be next. 

“Lady Clarisse,” the captain shouted. “Starboard and forward guns are in 
range!” 

“Fire!” Clarisse ordered. 

Three rounds were blasted into the monster’s maw. One blew off the edge 
of an incisor. Another disappeared into her gullet. The third hit one of 
Charybdis’s retaining bands and shot back at us, snapping the Ares flag off its 
pole. 

“Again!” Clarisse ordered. The gunners reloaded, but I knew it was 
hopeless. We would have to pound the monster a hundred more times to do any 
real damage, and we didn’t have that long. We were being sucked in too fast. 

Then the vibrations in the deck changed. The hum of the engine got 
stronger and steadier. The ship shuddered and we started pulling away from the 
mouth. 

“Tyson did it!” Annabeth said. 

“Wait!” Clarisse said. “We need to stay close!” 

“We’ ll die!” I said. “We have to move away.” 

I gripped the rail as the ship fought against the suction. The broken Ares 
flag raced past us and lodged in Charybdis’s braces. We weren’t making much 


progress, but at least we were holding our own. Tyson had somehow given us 
just enough juice to keep the ship from being sucked in. 

Suddenly, the mouth snapped shut. The sea died to absolute calm. Water 
washed over Charybdis. 

Then, just as quickly as it had closed, the mouth exploded open, spitting out 
a wall of water, ejecting everything inedible, including our cannonballs, one of 
which slammed into the side of the CSS Birmingham with a ding like the bell on 
a carnival game. 

We were thrown backward on a wave that must’ve been forty feet high. I 
used all of my willpower to keep the ship from capsizing, but we were still 
spinning out of control, hurtling toward the cliffs on the opposite side of the 
strait. 

Another smoldering sailor burst out of the hold. He stumbled into Clarisse, 
almost knocking them both overboard. “The engine is about to blow!” 

“Where’s Tyson?” I demanded. 

“Still down there,” the sailor said. “Holding it together somehow, though I 
don’t know for how much longer.” 

The captain said, “We have to abandon ship.” 

“No!” Clarisse yelled. 

“We have no choice, m’lady. The hull is already cracking apart! She can’t-“ 

He never finished his sentence. Quick as lightning, something brown and 
green shot from the sky, snatched up the captain, and lifted him away. All that 
was left were his leather boots. 

“Scylla!” a sailor yelled, as another column of reptilian flesh shot from the 
cliffs and snapped him up. It happened so fast it was like watching a laser beam 
rather than a monster. I couldn’t even make out the thing’s face, just a flash of 
teeth and scales. 

I uncapped Riptide and tried to swipe at the monster as it carried off another 
deckhand, but I was way too slow. 

“Everyone get below!” I yelled. 

“We can’t!” Clarisse drew her own sword. “Below deck is in flames.” 

“Lifeboats!” Annabeth said. “Quick!” 

“They’ ll never get clear of the cliffs,” Clarisse said. “We’ll all be eaten.” 

“We have to try. Percy, the thermos.” 

“T can’t leave Tyson!” 

“We have to get the boats ready!” 

Clarisse took Annabeth’s command. She and a few of her undead sailors 
uncovered one of the two emergency rowboats while Scylla’s heads rained from 
the sky like a meteor shower with teeth, picking off Confederate sailors one after 


another. 

“Get the other boat.” I threw Annabeth the thermos. “I’ll get Tyson.” 

“You can’t!” she said. “The heat will kill you!” 

I didn’t listen. I ran for the boiler room hatch, when suddenly my feet 
weren’t touching the deck anymore. I was flying straight up, the wind whistling 
in my ears, the side of the cliff only inches from my face. 

Scylla had somehow caught me by the knapsack, and was lifting me up 
toward her lair. Without thinking, I swung my sword behind me and managed to 
jab the thing in her beady yellow eye. She grunted and dropped me. 

The fall would’ve been bad enough, considering I was a hundred feet in the 
air. But as I fell, the CSS Birmingham exploded below me. 

KAROOM! 

The engine room blew, sending chunks of ironclad flying in either direction 
like a fiery set of wings. 

“Tyson!” I yelled. 

The lifeboats had managed to get away from the ship, but not very far. 
Flaming wreckage was raining down. Clarisse and Annabeth would either be 
smashed or burned or pulled to the bottom by the force of the sinking hull, and 
that was thinking optimistically, assuming they got away from Scylla. 

Then I heard a different kind of explosion-the sound of Hermes’s magic 
thermos being opened a little too far. White sheets of wind blasted in every 
direction, scattering the lifeboats, lifting me out of my free fall and propelling 
me across the ocean. 

I couldn’t see anything. I spun in the air, got clonked on the head by 
something hard, and hit the water with a crash that would’ve broken every bone 
in my body if I hadn’t been the son of the Sea God. 

The last thing I remembered was sinking in a burning sea, knowing that 
Tyson was gone forever, and wishing I were able to drown. 


TWELVE 


WE CHECK IN TO 


C.C.’S SPA & RESORT 

I woke up in a rowboat with a makeshift sail stitched of gray uniform 
fabric. Annabeth sat next to me, tacking into the wind. 

I tried to sit up and immediately felt woozy. 

“Rest,” she said. “You’re going to need it.” 

“Tyson ... ?” 

She shook her head. “Percy, I’m really sorry.” 

We were silent while the waves tossed us up and down. 

“He may have survived,” she said halfheartedly. “I mean, fire can’t kill 
him.” 

I nodded, but I had no reason to feel hopeful. I’d seen that explosion rip 
through solid iron. If Tyson had been down in the boiler room, there was no way 
he could’ve lived. 

He’d given his life for us, and all I could think about were the times I’d felt 
embarrassed by him and had denied that the two of us were related. 

Waves lapped at the boat. Annabeth showed me some things she’d salvaged 
from the wreckage-Hermes’s thermos (now empty), a Ziploc bag full of 
ambrosia, a couple of sailors’ shirts, and a bottle of Dr Pepper. She’d fished me 
out of the water and found my knapsack, bitten in half by Scylla’s teeth. Most of 
my stuff had floated away, but I still had Hermes’s bottle of multivitamins, and 
of course I had Riptide. The ballpoint pen always appeared back in my pocket no 
matter where I lost it. 

We sailed for hours. Now that we were in the Sea of Monsters, the water 
glittered a more brilliant green, like Hydra acid. The wind smelled fresh and 
salty, but it carried a strange metallic scent, too-as if a thunderstorm were 
coming. Or something even more dangerous. I knew what direction we needed 
to go. I knew we were exactly one hundred thirteen nautical miles west by 
northwest of our destination. But that didn’t make me feel any less lost. 

No matter which way we turned, the sun seemed to shine straight into my 
eyes. We took turns sipping from the Dr Pepper, shading ourselves with the sail 
as best we could. And we talked about my latest dream of Grover. 

By Annabeth’s estimate, we had less than twenty-four hours to find Grover, 
assuming my dream was accurate, and assuming the Cyclops Polyphemus didn’t 


change his mind and try to marry Grover earlier. 

“Yeah,” I said bitterly. “You can never trust a Cyclops.” 

Annabeth stared across the water. “I’m sorry, Percy. I was wrong about 
Tyson, okay? I wish I could tell him that.” 

I tried to stay mad at her, but it wasn’t easy. We’d been through a lot 
together. She’d saved my life plenty of times. It was stupid of me to resent her. 

I looked down at our measly possessions-the empty wind thermos, the 
bottle of multivitamins. I thought about Luke’s look of rage when I’d tried to 
talk to him about his dad. 

“Annabeth, what’s Chiron’s prophecy?” 

She pursed her lips. “Percy, I shouldn’t-“ 

“T know Chiron promised the gods he wouldn’t tell me. But you didn’t 
promise, did you?” 

“Knowledge isn’t always good for you.” 

“Your mom is the wisdom goddess!” 

“T know! But every time heroes learn the future, they try to change it, and it 
never works.” 

“The gods are worried about something I’ll do when I get older,” I guessed. 
“Something when I turn sixteen.” 

Annabeth twisted her Yankees cap in her hands. “Percy, I don’t know the 
full prophecy, but it warns about a half-blood child of the Big Three-the next one 
who lives to the age of sixteen. That’s the real reason Zeus, Poseidon, and Hades 
swore a pact after World War II not to have any more kids. The next child of the 
Big Three who reaches sixteen will be a dangerous weapon.” 

“Why?” 

“Because that hero will decide the fate of Olympus. He or she will make a 
decision that either saves the Age of the Gods, or destroys it.” 

I let that sink in. I don’t get seasick, but suddenly I felt ill. “That’s why 
Kronos didn’t kill me last summer.” 

She nodded. “You could be very useful to him. If he can get you on his side, 
the gods will be in serious trouble.” 

“But if it’s me in the prophecy-“ 

“We’ ll only know that if you survive three more years. That can be a long 
time for a half-blood. When Chiron first learned about Thalia, he assumed she 
was the one in the prophecy. That’s why he was so desperate to get her safely to 
camp. Then she went down fighting and got turned into a pine tree and none of 
us knew what to think. Until you came along.” 

On our port side, a spiky green dorsal fin about fifteen feet long curled out 
of the water and disappeared. 


“This kid in the prophecy ... he or she couldn’t be like, a Cyclops?” I 
asked. “The Big Three have lots of monster children.” 

Annabeth shook her head. “The Oracle said ‘half-blood.’ That always 
means half-human, half-god. There’s really nobody alive who it could be, except 
you.” 

“Then why do the gods even let me live? It would be safer to kill me.” 

“You’re right.” 

“Thanks a lot.” 

“Percy, I don’t know. I guess some of the gods would like to kill you, but 
they’re probably afraid of offending Poseidon. Other gods ... maybe they’re still 
watching you, trying to decide what kind of hero you’re going be. You could be 
a weapon for their survival, after all. The real question is ... what will you do in 
three years? What decision will you make?” 

“Did the prophecy give any hints?” 

Annabeth hesitated. 

Maybe she would’ve told me more, but just then a seagull swooped down 
out of nowhere and landed on our makeshift mast. Annabeth looked startled as 
the bird dropped a small cluster of leaves into her lap. 

“Land,” she said. “There’s land nearby!” 

I sat up. Sure enough, there was a line of blue and brown in the distance. 
Another minute and I could make out an island with a small mountain in the 
center, a dazzling white collection of buildings, a beach dotted with palm trees, 
and a harbor filled with a strange assortment of boats. 

The current was pulling our rowboat toward what looked like a tropical 
paradise. 

“Welcome!” said the lady with the clipboard. 

She looked like a flight attendant-blue business suit, perfect makeup, hair 
pulled back in a ponytail. She shook our hands as we stepped onto the dock. 
With the dazzling smile she gave us, you would’ve thought we’d just gotten off 
the Princess Andromeda rather than a banged-up rowboat. 

Then again, our rowboat wasn’t the weirdest ship in port. Along with a 
bunch of pleasure yachts, there was a U.S. Navy submarine, several dugout 
canoes, and an old-fashioned three-masted sailing ship. There was a helipad with 
a “Channel Five Fort Lauderdale” helicopter on it, and a short runway with a 
Learjet and a propeller plane that looked like a World War II fighter. Maybe they 
were replicas for tourists to look at or something. 

“Ts this your first time with us?” the clipboard lady inquired. 

Annabeth and I exchanged looks. Annabeth said, “Umm ...” 

“First-time-at-spa,” the lady said as she wrote on her clipboard. “Let’s see 


She looked us up and down critically. “Mmm. An herbal wrap to start for 
the young lady. And of course, a complete makeover for the young gentleman.” 

“A what?” I asked. 

She was too busy jotting down notes to answer. 

“Right!” She said with a breezy smile. “Well, I’m sure C.C. will want to 
speak with you personally before the luau. Come, please.” 

Now here’s the thing. Annabeth and I were used to traps, and usually those 
traps looked good at first. So I expected the clipboard lady to turn into a snake or 
a demon, or something, any minute. But on the other hand, we’d been floating in 
a rowboat for most of the day. I was hot, tired, and hungry, and when this lady 
mentioned a luau, my stomach sat up on its hind legs and begged like a dog. 

“T guess it couldn’t hurt,” Annabeth muttered. 

Of course it could, but we followed the lady anyway. I kept my hands in my 
pockets where I’d stashed my only magic defenses-Hermes’s multivitamins and 
Riptide-but the farther we wandered into the resort, the more I forgot about 
them. 

The place was amazing. There was white marble and blue water 
everywhere I looked. Terraces climbed up the side of the mountain, with 
swimming pools on every level, connected by watersides and waterfalls and 
underwater tubes you could swim through. Fountains sprayed water into the air, 
forming impossible shapes, like flying eagles and galloping horses. 

Tyson loved horses, and I knew he’d love those fountains. I almost turned 
around to see the expression on his face before I remembered: Tyson was gone. 

“You okay?” Annabeth asked me. “You look pale.” 

“T’m okay,” I lied. “Just ... let’s keep walking.” 

We passed all kinds of tame animals. A sea turtle napped in a stack of beach 
towels. A leopard stretched out asleep on the diving board. The resort guests- 
only young women, as far as I could see-lounged in deck chairs, drinking fruit 
smoothies or reading magazines while herbal gunk dried on their faces and 
manicurists in white uniforms did their nails. 

As we headed up a staircase toward what looked like the main building, I 
heard a woman singing. Her voice drifted through the air like a lullaby. Her 
words were in some language other than Ancient Greek, but just as old-Minoan, 
maybe, or something like that. I could understand what she sang about- 
moonlight in the olive groves, the colors of the sunrise. And magic. Something 
about magic. Her voice seemed to lift me off the steps and carry me toward her. 

We came into a big room where the whole front wall was windows. The 
back wall was covered in mirrors, so the room seemed to go on forever. There 


was a bunch of expensive-looking white furniture, and on a table in one corner 
was a large wire pet cage. The cage seemed out of place, but I didn’t think about 
it too much, because just then I saw the lady who’d been singing ... and whoa. 

She sat at a loom the size of a big screen TV, her hands weaving colored 
thread back and forth with amazing skill. The tapestry shimmered like it was 
three dimensional-a waterfall scene so real I could see the water moving and 
clouds drifting across a fabric sky. 

Annabeth caught her breath. “It’s beautiful.” 

The woman turned. She was even prettier than her fabric. Her long dark 
hair was braided with threads of gold. She had piercing green eyes and she wore 
a silky black dress with shapes that seemed to move in the fabric: animal 
shadows, black upon black, like deer running through a forest at night. 

“You appreciate weaving, my dear?” the woman asked. 

“Oh, yes, ma’am!” Annabeth said. “My mother is-“ 

She stopped herself. You couldn’t just go around announcing that your 
mom was Athena, the goddess who invented the loom. Most people would lock 
you in a rubber room. 

Our hostess just smiled. “You have good taste, my dear. I’m so glad you’ve 
come. My name is C.C.” 

The animals in the corner cage started squealing. They must’ve been guinea 
pigs, from the sound of them. 

We introduced ourselves to C.C. She looked me over with a twinge of 
disapproval, as if I’d failed some kind of test. Immediately, I felt bad. For some 
reason, I really wanted to please this lady. 

“Oh, dear,” she sighed. “You do need my help.” 

“Ma’am?” I asked. 

C.C. called to the lady in the business suit. “Hylla, take Annabeth on a tour, 
will you? Show her what we have available. The clothing will need to change. 
And the hair, my goodness. We will do a full image consultation after I’ve 
spoken with this young gentleman.” 

“But ...” Annabeth’s voice sounded hurt. “What’s wrong with my hair?” 

C.C. smiled benevolently. “My dear, you are lovely. Really! But you’re not 
showing off yourself or your talents at all. So much wasted potential!” 

“Wasted?” 

“Well, surely you’re not happy the way you are! My goodness, there’s not a 
single person who is. But don’t worry. We can improve anyone here at the spa. 
Hylla will show you what I mean. You, my dear, need to unlock your true self!” 

Annabeth’s eyes glowed with longing. I’d never seen her so much at a loss 
for words. “But ... what about Percy?” 


“Oh, definitely,” C.C. said, giving me a sad look. “Percy requires my 
personal attention. He needs much more work than you.” 

Normally if somebody had told me that, I would’ve gotten angry, but when 
C.C. said it, I felt sad. I’d disappointed her. I had to figure out how to do better. 

The guinea pigs squealed like they were hungry. 

“Well ...” Annabeth said. “I suppose ...” 

“Right this way, dear,” Hylla said. And Annabeth allowed herself to be led 
away into the waterfall-laced gardens of the spa. 

C.C. took my arm and guided me toward the mirrored wall. “You see, Percy 
... to unlock your potential, you’ll need serious help. The first step is admitting 
that you’re not happy the way you are.” 

I fidgeted in the front of the mirror. I hated thinking about my appearance- 
like the first zit that had cropped up on my nose at the beginning of the school 
year, or the fact that my two front teeth weren’t perfectly even, or that my hair 
never stayed down straight. 

C.C.’s voice brought all of these things to mind, as if she were passing me 
under a microscope. And my clothes were not cool. I knew that. 

Who cares? Part of me thought. But standing in front of C.C.’s mirror, it 
was hard to see anything good in myself. 

“There, there,” C.C. consoled. “How about we try ... this.” 

She snapped her fingers and a sky-blue curtain rolled down over the mirror. 
It shimmered like the fabric on her loom. 

“What do you see?” C.C. asked. 

I looked at the blue cloth, not sure what she meant. “I don’t-“ 

Then it changed colors. I saw myself-a reflection, but not a reflection. 
Shimmering there on the cloth was a cooler version of Percy Jackson-with just 
the right clothes, a confident smile on my face. My teeth were straight. No zits. 
A perfect tan. More athletic. Maybe a couple of inches taller. It was me, without 
the faults. 

“Whoa,” I managed. 

“Do you want that?” C.C. asked. “Or shall I try a different-“ 

“No,” I said. “That’s ... that’s amazing. Can you really-“ 

“T can give you a full makeover,” C.C. promised. 

“What’s the catch?” I said. “I have to like ... eat a special diet?” 

“Oh, it’s quite easy,” C.C. said. “Plenty of fresh fruit, a mild exercise 
program, and of course ... this.” 

She stepped over to her wet bar and filled a glass with water. Then she 
ripped open a drink-mix packet and poured in some red powder. The mixture 
began to glow. When it faded, the drink looked just like a strawberry milk shake. 


“One of these, substituted for a regular meal,” C.C. said. “I guarantee you’ ll 
see results immediately.” 

“How is that possible?” 

She laughed. “Why question it? I mean, don’t you want the perfect you 
right away?” 

Something nagged at the back of my mind. “Why are there no guys at this 
spa?” 

“Oh, but there are,” C.C. assured me. “You’!l meet them quite soon. Just try 
the mixture. You’ll see.” 

I looked at the blue tapestry, at the reflection of me, but not me. 

“Now, Percy,” C.C. chided. “The hardest part of the makeover process is 
giving up control. You have to decide: do you want to trust your judgment about 
what you should be, or my judgment?” 

My throat felt dry. I heard myself say, “Your judgment.” 

C.C. smiled and handed me the glass. I lifted it to my lips. 

It tasted just like it looked-like a strawberry milk shake. Almost 
immediately a warm feeling spread through my gut: pleasant at first, then 
painfully hot, searing, as if the mixture were coming to a boil inside of me. 

I doubled over and dropped the cup. “What have you ... what’s 
happening?” 

“Don’t worry, Percy,” C.C. said. “The pain will pass. Look! As I promised. 
Immediate results.” 

Something was horribly wrong. 

The curtain dropped away, and in the mirror I saw my hands shriveling, 
curling, growing long delicate claws. Fur sprouted on my face, under my shirt, in 
every uncomfortable place you can imagine. My teeth felt too heavy in my 
mouth. My clothes were getting too big, or C.C. was getting too tall-no, I was 
shrinking. 

In one awful flash, I sank into a cavern of dark cloth. I was buried in my 
own shirt. I tried to run but hands grabbed me-hands as big as I was. I tried to 
scream for help, but all that came out of my mouth was, “Reeet, reeet, reeet!” 

The giant hands squeezed me around the middle, lifting me into the air. I 
struggled and kicked with legs and arms that seemed much too stubby, and then I 
was Staring, horrified, into the enormous face of C.C. 

“Perfect!” her voice boomed. I squirmed in alarm, but she only tightened 
her grip around my furry belly. “See, Percy? You’ve unlocked your true self!” 

She held me up to the mirror, and what I saw made me scream in terror, 
“Reeet, reeet, reeet!” There was C.C., beautiful and smiling, holding a fluffy, 
bucktoothed creature with tiny claws and white and orange fur. When I twisted, 


so did the furry critter in the mirror. I was ... I was ... 

“A guinea pig,” C.C. said. “Lovely, aren’t you? Men are pigs, Percy 
Jackson. I used to turn them into real pigs, but they were so smelly and large and 
difficult to keep. Not much different than they were before, really. Guinea pigs 
are much more convenient! Now come, and meet the other men.” 

“Reeet!” I protested, trying to scratch her, but C.C. squeezed me so tight I 
almost blacked out. 

“None of that, little one,” she scolded, “or I’ll feed you to the owls. Go into 
the cage like a good little pet. Tomorrow, if you behave, you’ll be on your way. 
There is always a classroom in need of a new guinea pig.” 

My mind was racing as fast as my tiny little heart. I needed to get back to 
my clothes, which were lying in a heap on the floor. If I could do that, I could 
get Riptide out of my pocket and ... And what? I couldn’t uncap the pen. Even if 
I did, I couldn’t hold the sword. 

I squirmed helplessly as C.C. brought me over to the guinea pig cage and 
opened the wire door. 

“Meet my discipline problems, Percy,” she warned. “They’ll never make 
good classroom pets, but they might teach you some manners. Most of them 
have been in this cage for three hundred years. If you don’t want to stay with 
them permanently, I’d suggest you-“ 

Annabeth’s voice called: “Miss C.C.?” 

C.C. cursed in Ancient Greek. She plopped me into the cage and closed the 
door. I squealed and clawed at the bars, but it was no good. I watched as C.C. 
hurriedly kicked my clothes under the loom just as Annabeth came in. 

I almost didn’t recognize her. She was wearing a sleeveless silk dress like 
C.C.’s, only white. Her blond hair was newly washed and combed and braided 
with gold. Worst of all, she was wearing makeup, which I never thought 
Annabeth would be caught dead in. I mean, she looked good. Really good. I 
probably would’ve been tongue-tied if I could’ve said anything except reet, reet, 
reet. But there was also something totally wrong about it. It just wasn’t 
Annabeth. 

She looked around the room and frowned. “Where’s Percy?” 

I squealed up a storm, but she didn’t seem to hear me. 

C.C. smiled. “He’s having one of our treatments, my dear. Not to worry. 
You look wonderful! What did you think of your tour?” 

Annabeth’s eyes brightened. “Your library is amazing!” 

“Yes, indeed,” C.C. said, “The best knowledge of the past three millennia. 
Anything you want to study, anything you want to be, my dear.” 

“An architect?” 


“Pah!” C.C. said. “You, my dear, have the makings of a sorceress. Like 
me.” 

Annabeth took a step back. “A sorceress?” 

“Yes, my dear.” C.C. held up her hand. A flame appeared in her palm and 
danced across her fingertips. “My mother is Hecate, the goddess of magic. I 
know a daughter of Athena when I see one. We are not so different, you and I. 
We both seek knowledge. We both admire greatness. Neither of us needs to stand 
in the shadow of men.” 

“T-I don’t understand.” 

Again, I squealed my best, trying to get Annabeth’s attention, but she either 
couldn’t hear me or didn’t think the noises were important. Meanwhile, the other 
guinea pigs were emerging from their hutch to check me out. I didn’t think it was 
possible for guinea pigs to look mean, but these did. There were half a dozen, 
with dirty fur and cracked teeth and beady red eyes. They were covered with 
shavings and smelled like they really had been in here for three hundred years, 
without getting their cage cleaned. 

“Stay with me,” C.C. was telling Annabeth. “Study with me. You can join 
our staff, become a sorceress, learn to bend others to your will. You will become 
immortal!” 

“But-“ 

“You are too intelligent, my dear,” C.C. said. “You know better than to trust 
that silly camp for heroes. How many great female half-blood heroes can you 
name?” 

“Um, Atalanta, Amelia Earhart-“ 

“Bah! Men get all the glory.” C.C. closed her fist and extinguished the 
magic flame. “The only way to power for women is sorcery. Medea, Calypso, 
now there were powerful women! And me, of course. The greatest of all.” 

"YOU «.."C.C....9 Circe!” 

“Yes, my dear.” 

Annabeth backed up, and Circe laughed. “You need not worry. I mean you 
no harm.” 

“What have you done to Percy?” 

“Only helped him realize his true form.” 

Annabeth scanned the room. Finally she saw the cage, and me scratching at 
the bars, all the other guinea pigs crowding around me. Her eyes went wide. 

“Forget him,” Circe said. “Join me and learn the ways of sorcery.” 

“But-“ 

“Your friend will be well cared for. He’ll be shipped to a wonderful new 
home on the mainland. The kindergartners will adore him. Meanwhile, you will 


be wise and powerful. You will have all you ever wanted.” 

Annabeth was still staring at me, but she had a dreamy expression on her 
face. She looked the same way I had when Circe enchanted me into drinking the 
guinea pig milk shake. I squealed and scratched, trying to warn her to snap out 
of it, but I was absolutely powerless. 

“Let me think about it,” Annabeth murmured. “Just... give me a minute 
alone. To say good-bye.” 

“Of course, my dear,” Circe cooed. “One minute. Oh ... and so you have 
absolute privacy ...” She waved her hand and iron bars slammed down over the 
windows. She swept out of the room and I heard the locks on the door click shut 
behind her. 

The dreamy look melted off Annabeth’s face. 

She rushed over to my cage. “All right, which one is you? 

I squealed, but so did all the other guinea pigs. Annabeth looked desperate. 
She scanned the room and spotted the cuff of my jeans sticking out from under 
the loom. 

Yes! 

She rushed over and rummaged through my pockets. 

But instead of bringing out Riptide, she found the bottle of Hermes 
multivitamins and started struggling with the cap. 

I wanted to scream at her that this wasn’t the time for taking supplements! 
She had to draw the sword! 

She popped a lemon chewable in her mouth just as the door flew open and 
Circe came back in, flanked by two of her business-suited attendants. 

“Well,” Circe sighed, “how fast a minute passes. What is your answer, my 
dear?” 

“This,” Annabeth said, and she drew her bronze knife. 

The sorceress stepped back, but her surprise quickly passed. She sneered. 
“Really, little girl, a knife against my magic? Is that wise?” 

Circe looked back at her attendants, who smiled. They raised their hands as 
if preparing to cast a spell. 

Run! I wanted to tell Annabeth, but all I could make were rodent noises. 
The other guinea pigs squealed in terror and scuttled around the cage. I had the 
urge to panic and hide, too, but I had to think of something! I couldn’t stand to 
lose Annabeth the way I’d lost Tyson. 

“What will Annabeth’s makeover be?” Circe mused. “Something small and 
ill-tempered. I know ... a shrew!” 

Blue fire coiled from her fingers curling like serpents around Annabeth. 

I watched, horror-struck, but nothing happened. Annabeth was still 


Annabeth, only angrier. She leaped forward and stuck the point of her knife 
against Circe’s neck. “How about turning me into a panther instead? One that 
has her claws at your throat!” 

“How!” Circe yelped. 

Annabeth held up my bottle of vitamins for the sorceress to see. 

Circe howled in frustration. “Curse Hermes and his multivitamins! Those 
are such a fad! They do nothing for you.” 

“Turn Percy back to a human or else!” Annabeth said. 

“T can’t!” 

“Then you asked for it.” 

Circe’s attendants stepped forward, but their mistress said, “Get back! She’s 
immune to magic until that cursed vitamin wears off.” 

Annabeth dragged Circe over to the guinea pig cage, knocked the top off, 
and poured the rest of the vitamins inside. 

“No!” Circe screamed. 

I was the first to get a vitamin, but all the other guinea pigs scuttled out, 
too, and checked out this new food. 

The first nibble, and I felt all fiery inside. I gnawed at the vitamin until it 
stopped looking so huge, and the cage got smaller, and then suddenly, bang! The 
cage exploded. I was sitting on the floor, a human again-somehow back in my 
regular clothes, thank the gods-with six other guys who all looked disoriented, 
blinking and shaking wood shavings out of their hair. 

“No!” Circe screamed. “You don’t understand! Those are the worst!” 

One of the men stood up-a huge guy with a long tangled pitch-black beard 
and teeth the same color. He wore mismatched clothes of wool and leather, knee- 
length boots, and a floppy felt hat. The other men were dressed more simply-in 
breeches and stained white shirts. All of them were barefoot. 

“Argggh!” bellowed the big man. “What’s the witch done t’me!” 

“No!” Circe moaned. 

Annabeth gasped. “I recognize you! Edward Teach, son of Ares?” 

“Aye, lass,” the big man growled. “Though most call me Blackbeard! And 
there’s the sorceress what captured us, lads. Run her through, and then I mean to 
find me a big bowl of celery! Arggggh!” 

Circe screamed. She and her attendants ran from the room, chased by the 
pirates. 

Annabeth sheathed her knife and glared at me. 

“Thanks ...” I faltered. “I’m really sorry-“ 

Before I could figure out how to apologize for being such an idiot, she 
tackled me with a hug, then pulled away just as quickly. “I’m glad you’re not a 


guinea pig.” 

“Me, too.” I hoped my face wasn’t as red as it felt. 

She undid the golden braids in her hair. 

“Come on, Seaweed Brain,” she said. “We have to get away while Circe’s 
distracted.” 

We ran down the hillside through the terraces, past screaming spa workers 
and pirates ransacking the resort. Blackbeard’s men broke the tiki torches for the 
luau, threw herbal wraps into the swimming pool, and kicked over tables of 
sauna towels. 

I almost felt bad letting the unruly pirates out, but I guessed they deserved 
something more entertaining than the exercise wheel after being cooped up in a 
cage for three centuries. 

“Which ship?” Annabeth said as we reached the docks. 

I looked around desperately. We couldn’t very well take our rowboat. We 
had to get off the island fast, but what else could we use? A sub? A fighter jet? I 
couldn’t pilot any of those things. And then I saw it. 

“There,” I said. 

Annabeth blinked. “But-“ 

“T can make it work.” 

“How?” 

I couldn’t explain. I just somehow knew an old sailing vessel was the best 
bet for me. I grabbed Annabeth’s hand and pulled her toward the three-mast 
ship. Painted on its prow was the name that I would only decipher later: Queen 
Anne’s Revenge. 

“Argggh!” Blackbeard yelled somewhere behind us. “Those scalawags are 
aboarding me vessel! Get ‘em, lads!” 

“We’ ll never get going in time!” Annabeth yelled as we climbed aboard. 

I looked around at the hopeless maze of sail and ropes. The ship was in 
great condition for a three-hundred-year-old vessel, but it would still take a crew 
of fifty several hours to get underway. We didn’t have several hours. I could see 
the pirates running down the stairs, waving tiki torches and sticks of celery. 

I closed my eyes and concentrated on the waves lapping against the hull, 
the ocean currents, the winds all around me. Suddenly, the right word appeared 
in my mind. “Mizzenmast!” I yelled. 

Annabeth looked at me like I was nuts, but in the next second, the air was 
filled with whistling sounds of ropes being snapped taut, canvases unfurling, and 
wooden pulleys creaking. 

Annabeth ducked as a cable flew over her head and wrapped itself around 
the bowsprit. “Percy, how ...” 


I didn’t have an answer, but I could feel the ship responding to me as if it 
were part of my body. I willed the sails to rise as easily as if I were flexing my 
arm. I willed the rudder to turn. 

The Queen Anne’s Revenge lurched away from the dock, and by the time 
the pirates arrived at the water’s edge, we were already underway, sailing into 
the Sea of Monsters. 


THIRTEEN 


ANNABETH TRIES 


TO SWIM HOME 


I’d finally found something I was really good at. 

The Queen Anne’s Revenge responded to my every command. I knew 
which ropes to hoist, which sails to raise, which direction to steer. We plowed 
through the waves at what I figured was about ten knots. I even understood how 
fast that was. For a sailing ship, pretty darn fast. 

It all felt perfect-the wind in my face, the waves breaking over the prow. 

But now that we were out of danger, all I could think about was how much I 
missed Tyson, and how worried I was about Grover. 

I couldn’t get over how badly I’d messed up on Circe’s Island. If it hadn’t 
been for Annabeth, I’d still be a rodent, hiding in a hutch with a bunch of cute 
furry pirates. I thought about what Circe had said: See, Percy? You’ve unlocked 
your true self! 

I still felt changed. Not just because I had a sudden desire to eat lettuce. I 
felt jumpy, like the instinct to be a scared little animal was now a part of me. Or 
maybe it had always been there. That’s what really worried me. 

We sailed through the night. 

Annabeth tried to help me keep lookout, but sailing didn’t agree with her. 
After a few hours rocking back and forth, her face turned the color of guacamole 
and she went below to lie in a hammock. 

I watched the horizon. More than once I spotted monsters. A plume of 
water as tall as a skyscraper spewed into the moonlight. A row of green spines 
slithered across the waves-something maybe a hundred feet long, reptilian. I 
didn’t really want to know. 

Once I saw Nereids, the glowing lady spirits of the sea. I tried to wave at 
them, but they disappeared into the depths, leaving me unsure whether they’d 
seen me or not. 

Sometime after midnight, Annabeth came up on deck. We were just passing 
a smoking volcano island. The sea bubbled and steamed around the shore. 

“One of the forges of Hephaestus,” Annabeth said. “Where he makes his 
metal monsters.” 

“Like the bronze bulls?” 

She nodded. “Go around. Far around.” 

I didn’t need to be told twice. We steered clear of the island, and soon it was 
just a red patch of haze behind us. 

I looked at Annabeth. “The reason you hate Cyclopes so much ... the story 


about how Thalia really died. What happened?” 

It was hard to see her expression in the dark. 

“T guess you deserve to know,” she said finally. “The night Grover was 
escorting us to camp, he got confused, took some wrong turns. You remember he 
told you that once?” 

I nodded. 

“Well, the worst wrong turn was into a Cyclops’s lair in Brooklyn.” 

“They’ve got Cyclopes in Brooklyn?” I asked. 

“You wouldn’t believe how many, but that’s not the point. This Cyclops, he 
tricked us. He managed to split us up inside this maze of corridors in an old 
house in Flatbush. And he could sound like anyone, Percy. Just the way Tyson 
did aboard the Princess Andromeda. He lured us, one at a time. Thalia thought 
she was running to save Luke. Luke thought he heard me scream for help. And 
me ... I was alone in the dark. I was seven years old. I couldn’t even find the 
exit.” 

She brushed the hair out of her face. “I remember finding the main room. 
There were bones all over the floor. And there were Thalia and Luke and Grover, 
tied up and gagged, hanging from the ceiling like smoked hams. The Cyclops 
was Starting a fire in the middle of the floor. I drew my knife, but he heard me. 
He turned and smiled. He spoke, and somehow he knew my dad’s voice. I guess 
he just plucked it out of my mind. He said, ‘Now, Annabeth, don’t you worry. I 
love you. You can stay here with me. You can stay forever.’” 

I shivered. The way she told it-even now, six years later-freaked me out 
worse than any ghost story I’d ever heard. “What did you do?” 

“T stabbed him in the foot.” 

I stared at her. “Are you kidding? You were seven years old and you 
stabbed a grown Cyclops in the foot?” 

“Oh, he would’ve killed me. But I surprised him. It gave me just enough 
time to run to Thalia and cut the ropes on her hands. She took it from there.” 

“Yeah, but still ... that was pretty brave, Annabeth.” 

She shook her head. “We barely got out alive. I still have nightmares, Percy. 
The way that Cyclops talked in my father’s voice. It was his fault we took so 
long getting to camp. All the monsters who’d been chasing us had time to catch 
up. That’s really why Thalia died. If it hadn’t been for that Cyclops, she’d still be 
alive today.” 

We sat on the deck, watching the Hercules constellation rise in the night 
sky. 

“Go below,” Annabeth told me at last. “You need some rest.” 

I nodded. My eyes were heavy. But when I got below and found a 


hammock, it took me a long time to fall asleep. I kept thinking about Annabeth’s 
story. I wondered, if I were her, would I have had enough courage to go on this 
quest, to sail straight toward the lair of another Cyclops? 

I didn’t dream about Grover. 

Instead I found myself back in Luke’s stateroom aboard the Princess 
Andromeda. The curtains were open. It was nighttime outside. The air swirled 
with shadows. Voices whispered all around me-spirits of the dead. 

Beware, they whispered. Traps. Trickery. 

Kronos’s golden sarcophagus glowed faintly-the only source of light in the 
room. 

A cold laugh startled me. It seemed to come from miles below the ship. You 
don’t have the courage, young one. You can’t stop me. 

I knew what I had to do. I had to open that coffin. 

I uncapped Riptide. Ghosts whirled around me like a tornado. Beware! 

My heart pounded. I couldn’t make my feet move, but I had to stop Kronos. 
I had to destroy whatever was in that box. 

Then a girl spoke right next to me: “Well, Seaweed Brain?” 

I looked over, expecting to see Annabeth, but the girl wasn’t Annabeth. She 
wore punk-style clothes with silver chains on her wrists. She had spiky black 
hair, dark eyeliner around her stormy blue eyes, and a spray of freckles across 
her nose. She looked familiar, but I wasn’t sure why. 

“Well?” she asked. “Are we going to stop him or not?” 

I couldn’t answer. I couldn’t move. 

The girl rolled her eyes. “Fine. Leave it to me and Aegis.” 

She tapped her wrist and her silver chains transformed-flattening and 
expanding into a huge shield. It was silver and bronze, with the monstrous face 
of Medusa protruding from the center. It looked like a death mask, as if the 
gorgon’s real head had been pressed into the metal. I didn’t know if that was 
true, or if the shield could really petrify me, but I looked away. Just being near it 
made me cold with fear. I got a feeling that in a real fight, the bearer of that 
shield would be almost impossible to beat. Any sane enemy would turn and run. 

The girl drew her sword and advanced on the sarcophagus. The shadowy 
ghosts parted for her, scattering before the terrible aura of her shield. 

“No,” I tried to warn her. 

But she didn’t listen. She marched straight up to the sarcophagus and 
pushed aside the golden lid. 

For a moment she stood there, gazing down at whatever was in the box. 

The coffin began to glow. 

“No.” The girl’s voice trembled. “It can’t be.” 


From the depths of the ocean, Kronos laughed so loudly the whole ship 
trembled. 

“No!” The girl screamed as the sarcophagus engulfed her in a blast of a 
golden light. 

“Ah!” T sat bolt upright in my hammock. 

Annabeth was shaking me. “Percy, you were having a nightmare. You need 
to get up.” 

“Wh-what is it?” I rubbed my eyes. “What’s wrong?” 

“Land,” she said grimly. “We’re approaching the island of the Sirens.” 

I could barely make out the island ahead of us-just a dark spot in the mist. 

“T want you to do me a favor,” Annabeth said. “The Sirens ... we’ll be in 
range of their singing soon.” 

I remembered stories about the Sirens. They sang so sweetly their voices 
enchanted sailors and lured them to their death. 

“No problem,” I assured her. “We can just stop up our ears. There’s a big 
tub of candle wax below deck-“ 

“T want to hear them.” 

I blinked. “Why?” 

“They say the Sirens sing the truth about what you desire. They tell you 
things about yourself you didn’t even realize. That’s what’s so enchanting. If you 
survive ... you become wiser. I want to hear them. How often will I get that 
chance?” 

Coming from most people, this would’ve made no sense. But Annabeth 
being who she was-well, if she could struggle through Ancient Greek 
architecture books and enjoy documentaries on the History Channel, I guessed 
the Sirens would appeal to her, too. 

She told me her plan. Reluctantly, I helped her get ready. 

As soon as the rocky coastline of the island came into view, I ordered one 
of the ropes to wrap around Annabeth’s waist, tying her to the foremast. 

“Don’t untie me,” she said, “no matter what happens or how much I plead. 
Ill want to go straight over the edge and drown myself.” 

“Are you trying to tempt me?” 

“Ha-ha.” 

I promised I’d keep her secure. Then I took two large wads of candle wax, 
kneaded them into earplugs, and stuffed my ears. 

Annabeth nodded sarcastically, letting me know the earplugs were a real 
fashion statement. I made a face at her and turned to the pilot’s wheel. 

The silence was eerie. I couldn’t hear anything but the rush of blood in my 
head. As we approached the island, jagged rocks loomed out of the fog. I willed 


the Queen Anne’s Revenge to skirt around them. If we sailed any closer, those 
rocks would shred our hull like blender blades. 

I glanced back. At first, Annabeth seemed totally normal. Then she got a 
puzzled look on her face. Her eyes widened. 

She strained against the ropes. She called my name-I could tell just from 
reading her lips. Her expression was clear: She had to get out. This was life or 
death. I had to let her out of the ropes right now. 

She seemed so miserable it was hard not to cut her free. 

I forced myself to look away. I urged the Queen Anne’s Revenge to go 
faster. 

I still couldn’t see much of the island-just mist and rocks-but floating in the 
water were pieces of wood and fiberglass, the wreckage of old ships, even some 
flotation cushions from airplanes. 

How could music cause so many lives to veer off course? I mean, sure, 
there were some Top Forty songs that made me want to take a fiery nosedive, but 
still ... What could the Sirens possibly sing about? 

For one dangerous moment, I understood Annabeth’s curiosity. I was 
tempted to take out the earplugs, just to get a taste of the song. I could feel the 
Sirens’ voices vibrating in the timbers of the ship, pulsing along with the roar of 
blood in my ears. 

Annabeth was pleading with me. Tears streamed down her cheeks. She 
Strained against the ropes, as if they were holding her back from everything she 
cared about. 

How could you be so cruel? She seemed to be asking me. I thought you 
were my friend. 

I glared at the misty island. I wanted to uncap my sword, but there was 
nothing to fight. How do you fight a song? 

I tried hard not to look at Annabeth. I managed it for about five minutes. 

That was my big mistake. 

When I couldn’t stand it any longer, I looked back and found ... a heap of 
cut ropes. An empty mast. Annabeth’s bronze knife lay on the deck. Somehow, 
she’d managed to wriggle it into her hand. I’d totally forgotten to disarm her. 

I rushed to the side of the boat and saw her, paddling madly for the island, 
the waves carrying her straight toward the jagged rocks. 

I screamed her name, but if she heard me, it didn’t do any good. She was 
entranced, swimming toward her death. 

I looked back at the pilot’s wheel and yelled, “Stay!” 

Then I jumped over the side. 

I sliced into the water and willed the currents to bend around me, making a 


jet stream that shot me forward. 

I came to the surface and spotted Annabeth, but a wave caught her, 
sweeping her between two razor-sharp fangs of rock. 

I had no choice. I plunged after her. 

I dove under the wrecked hull of a yacht, wove through a collection of 
floating metal balls on chains that I realized afterward were mines. I had to use 
all my power over water to avoid getting smashed against the rocks or tangled in 
the nets of barbed wire strung just below the surface. 

I jetted between the two rock fangs and found myself in a half-moon- 
shaped bay. The water was choked with more rocks and ship wreckage and 
floating mines. The beach was black volcanic sand. 

I looked around desperately for Annabeth. 

There she was. 

Luckily or unluckily, she was a strong swimmer. She’d made it past the 
mines and the rocks. She was almost to the black beach. 

Then the mist cleared and I saw them-the Sirens. 

Imagine a flock of vultures the size of people-with dirty black plumage, 
gray talons, and wrinkled pink necks. Now imagine human heads on top of those 
necks, but the human heads keep changing. 

I couldn’t hear them, but I could see they were singing. As their mouths 
moved, their faces morphed into people I knew-my mom, Poseidon, Grover, 
Tyson, Chiron. All the people I most wanted to see. They smiled reassuringly, 
inviting me forward. But no matter what shape they took, their mouths were 
greasy and caked with the remnants of old meals. Like vultures, they’d been 
eating with their faces, and it didn’t look like they’d been feasting on Monster 
Donuts. 

Annabeth swam toward them. 

I knew I couldn’t let her get out of the water. The sea was my only 
advantage. It had always protected me one way or another. I propelled myself 
forward and grabbed her inkle. 

The moment I touched her, a shock went through my body, and I saw the 
Sirens the way Annabeth must’ve been seeing them. 

Three people sat on a picnic blanket in Central Park. A feast was spread out 
before them. I recognized Annabeth’s dad from photos she’d shown me-an 
athletic-looking, sandy-haired guy in his forties. He was holding hands with a 
beautiful woman who looked a lot like Annabeth. She was dressed casually-in 
blue jeans and a denim shirt and hiking boots-but something about the woman 
radiated power. I knew that I was looking at the goddess Athena. Next to them 
sat a young man ... Luke. 


The whole scene glowed in a warm, buttery light. The three of them were 
talking and laughing, and when they saw Annabeth, their faces lit up with 
delight. Annabeth’s mom and dad held out their arms invitingly. Luke grinned 
and gestured for Annabeth to sit next to him-as if he’d never betrayed her, as if 
he were still her friend. 

Behind the trees of Central Park, a city skyline rose. I caught my breath, 
because it was Manhattan, but not Manhattan. It had been totally rebuilt from 
dazzling white marble, bigger and grander than ever-with golden windows and 
rooftop gardens. It was better than New York. Better than Mount Olympus. 

I knew immediately that Annabeth had designed it all. She was the architect 
for a whole new world. She had reunited her parents. She had saved Luke. She 
had done everything she’d ever wanted. 

I blinked hard. When I opened my eyes, all I saw were the Sirens-ragged 
vultures with human faces, ready to feed on another victim. 

I pulled Annabeth back into the surf. I couldn’t hear her, but I could tell she 
was screaming. She kicked me in the face, but I held on. 

I willed the currents to carry us out into the bay. Annabeth pummeled and 
kicked me, making it hard to concentrate. She thrashed so much we almost 
collided with a floating mine. I didn’t know what to do. I’d never get back to the 
ship alive if she kept fighting. 

We went under and Annabeth stopped struggling. Her expression became 
confused. Then our heads broke the surface and she started to fight again. 

The water! Sound didn’t travel well underwater. If I could submerge her 
long enough, I could break the spell of the music. Of course, Annabeth wouldn’t 
be able to breathe, but at the moment, that seemed like a minor problem. 

I grabbed her around the waist and ordered the waves to push us down. 

We shot into the depths-ten feet, twenty feet. I knew I had to be careful 
because I could withstand a lot more pressure than Annabeth. She fought and 
struggled for breath as bubbles rose around us. 

Bubbles. 

I was desperate. I had to keep Annabeth alive. I imagined all the bubbles in 
the sea-always churning, rising. I imagined them coming together, being pulled 
toward me. 

The sea obeyed. There was a flurry of white, a tickling sensation all around 
me, and when my vision cleared, Annabeth and I had a huge bubble of air 
around us. Only our legs stuck into the water. 

She gasped and coughed. Her whole body shuddered, but when she looked 
at me, I knew the spell had been broken. 

She started to sob-I mean horrible, heartbroken sobbing. She put her head 


on my shoulder and I held her. 

Fish gathered to look at us-a school of barracudas, some curious marlins. 

Scram! I told them. 

They swam off, but I could tell they went reluctantly. I swear I understood 
their intentions. They were about to start rumors flying around the sea about the 
son of Poseidon and some girl at the bottom of Siren Bay. 

“T’ll get us back to the ship,” I told her. “It’s okay. Just hang on.” 

Annabeth nodded to let me know she was better now, then she murmured 
something I couldn’t hear because of the wax in my ears. 

I made the current steer our weird little air submarine through the rocks and 
barbed wire and back toward the hull of the Queen Anne’s Revenge, which was 
maintaining a slow and steady course away from the island. 

We stayed underwater, following the ship, until I judged we had moved out 
of earshot of the Sirens. Then I surfaced and our air bubble popped. 

I ordered a rope ladder to drop over the side of the ship, and we climbed 
aboard. 

I kept my earplugs in, just to be sure. We sailed until the island was 
completely out of sight. Annabeth sat huddled in a blanket on the forward deck. 
Finally she looked up, dazed and sad, and mouthed, safe. 

I took out the earplugs. No singing. The afternoon was quiet except for the 
sound of the waves against the hull. The fog had burned away to a blue sky, as if 
the island of the Sirens had never existed. 

“You okay?” I asked. The moment I said it, I realized how lame that 
sounded. Of course she wasn’t okay. 

“T didn’t realize,” she murmured. 

“What?” 

Her eyes were the same color as the mist over the Sirens’ island. “How 
powerful the temptation would be.” 

I didn’t want to admit that I’d seen what the Sirens had promised her. I felt 
like a trespasser. But I figured I owed it to Annabeth. 

“T saw the way you rebuilt Manhattan,” I told her. “And Luke and your 
parents.” 

She blushed. “You saw that?” 

“What Luke told you back on the Princess Andromeda, about starting the 
world from scratch ... that really got to you, huh?” 

She pulled her blanket around her. “My fatal flaw. That’s what the Sirens 
showed me. My fatal flaw is hubris.” 

I blinked. “That brown stuff they spread on veggie sandwiches?” 

She rolled her eyes. “No, Seaweed Brain. That’s hummus. Hubris is worse.” 


“What could be worse than hummus?” 

“Hubris means deadly pride, Percy. Thinking you can do things better than 
anyone else ... even the gods.” 

“You feel that way?” 

She looked down. “Don’t you ever feel like, what if the world really is 
messed up? What if we could do it all over again from scratch? No more war. 
Nobody homeless. No more summer reading homework.” 

“T’m listening.” 

“T mean, the West represents a lot of the best things mankind ever did-that’s 
why the fire is still burning. That’s why Olympus is still around. But sometimes 
you just see the bad stuff, you know? And you start thinking the way Luke does: 
‘Tf I could tear this all down, I would do it better.’ Don’t you ever feel that way? 
Like you could do a better job if you ran the world?” 

“Um ... no. Me running the world would kind of be a nightmare.” 

“Then you’re lucky. Hubris isn’t your fatal flaw.” 

“What is?” 

“T don’t know, Percy, but every hero has one. If you don’t find it and learn 
to control it ... well, they don’t call it ‘fatal’ for nothing.” 

I thought about that. It didn’t exactly cheer me up. 

I also noticed Annabeth hadn’t said much about the personal things she 
would change-like getting her parents back together, or saving Luke. I 
understood. I didn’t want to admit how many times I’d dreamed of getting my 
own parents back together. 

I pictured my mom, alone in our little apartment on the Upper East Side. I 
tried to remember the smell of her blue waffles in the kitchen. It seemed so far 
away. 

“So was it worth it?” I asked Annabeth. “Do you feel ... wiser?” 

She gazed into the distance. “I’m not sure. But we have to save the camp. If 
we don’t stop Luke ...” 

She didn’t need to finish. If Luke’s way of thinking could even tempt 
Annabeth, there was no telling how many other half-bloods might join him. 

I thought about my dream of the girl and the golden sarcophagus. I wasn’t 
sure what it meant, but I got the feeling I was missing something. Something 
terrible that Kronos was planning. What had the girl seen when she opened that 
coffin lid? 

Suddenly Annabeth’s eyes widened. “Percy.” 

I turned. 

Up ahead was another blotch of land-a saddle-shaped island with forested 
hills and white beaches and green meadows-just like I’d seen in my dreams. 


My nautical senses confirmed it. 30 degrees, 31 minutes north, 75 degrees, 
12 minutes west. 
We had reached the home of the Cyclops. 


FOURTEEN 


WE MEET THE SHEEP 


OF DOOM 


When you think “monster island,” you think craggy rocks and bones 
scattered on the beach like the island of the Sirens. 

The Cyclops’s island was nothing like that. I mean, okay, it had a rope 
bridge across a chasm, which was not a good sign. You might as well put up a 
billboard that said, SOMETHING EVIL LIVES HERE. But except for that, the 
place looked like a Caribbean postcard. It had green fields and tropical fruit trees 
and white beaches. As we sailed toward the shore, Annabeth breathed in the 
sweet air. “The Fleece,” she said. 

I nodded. I couldn’t see the Fleece yet, but I could feel its power. I could 
believe it would heal anything, even Thalia’s poisoned tree. “If we take it away, 
will the island die?” 

Annabeth shook her head. “It’!1 fade. Go back to what it would be normally, 
whatever that is.” 

I felt a little guilty about ruining this paradise, but I reminded myself we 
had no choice. Camp Half-Blood was in trouble. And Tyson ... Tyson would still 
be with us if it wasn’t for this quest. 

In the meadow at the base of the ravine, several dozen sheep were milling 
around. They looked peaceful enough, but they were huge-the size of hippos. 
Just past them was a path that led up into the hills. At the top of the path, near 
the edge of the canyon, was the massive oak tree I’d seen in my dreams. 
Something gold glittered in its branches. 

“This is too easy,” I said. “We could just hike up there and take it?” 

Annabeth’s eyes narrowed. “There’s supposed be a guardian. A dragon or 

That’s when a deer emerged from the bushes. It trotted into the meadow, 
probably looking for grass to eat, when the sheep all bleated at once and rushed 
the animal. It happened so fast that the deer stumbled and was lost in a sea of 
wool and trampling hooves. 

Grass and tufts of fur flew into the air. 

A second later the sheep all moved away, back to their regular peaceful 
wanderings. Where the deer had been was a pile of clean white bones. 

Annabeth and I exchanged looks. 

“They’re like piranhas,” she said. 

“Piranhas with wool. How will we-“ 

“Percy!” Annabeth gasped, grabbing my arm. “Look.” 


She pointed down the beach, to just below the sheep meadow, where a 
small boat had been run aground ... the other lifeboat from the CSS 
Birmingham. 

We decided there was no way we could get past the man-eating sheep. 
Annabeth wanted to sneak up the path invisibly and grab the Fleece, but in the 
end I convinced her that something would go wrong. The sheep would smell her. 
Another guardian would appear. Something. And if that happened, I’d be too far 
away to help. 

Besides, our first job was to find Grover and whoever had come ashore in 
that lifeboat-assuming they’d gotten past the sheep. I was too nervous to say 
what I was secretly hoping ... that Tyson might still be alive. 

We moored the Queen Anne’s Revenge on the back side of the island where 
the cliffs rose straight up a good two hundred feet. I figured the ship was less 
likely to be seen there. The cliffs looked climbable, barely-about as difficult as 
the lava wall back at camp. At least it was free of sheep. I hoped that 
Polyphemus did not also keep carnivorous mountain goats. 

We rowed a lifeboat to the edge of the rocks and made our way up, very 
slowly. Annabeth went first because she was the better climber. 

We only came close to dying six or seven times, which I thought was pretty 
good. Once, I lost my grip and I found myself dangling by one hand from a 
ledge fifty feet above the rocky surf. But I found another handhold and kept 
climbing. A minute later Annabeth hit a slippery patch of moss and her foot 
slipped. Fortunately, she found something else to put it against. Unfortunately, 
that something was my face. 

“Sorry,” she murmured. 

“S’okay,” I grunted, though I’d never really wanted to know what 
Annabeth’s sneaker tasted like. 

Finally, when my fingers felt like molten lead and my arm muscles were 
shaking from exhaustion, we hauled ourselves over the top of the cliff and 
collapsed. 

“Ugh,” I said. 

“Ouch,” moaned Annabeth. 

“Garrr!” bellowed another voice. 

If I hadn’t been so tired, I would’ve leaped another two hundred feet. I 
whirled around, but I couldn’t see who’d spoken. 

Annabeth clamped her hand over my mouth. She pointed. 

The ledge we were sitting on was narrower than I’d realized. It dropped off 
on the opposite side, and that’s where the voice was coming from-right below us. 

“You’re a feisty one!” the deep voice bellowed. 


“Challenge me!” Clarisse’s voice, no doubt about it. “Give me back my 
sword and I’ ll fight you!” 

The monster roared with laughter. 

Annabeth and I crept to the edge. We were right above the entrance of the 
Cyclops’s cave. Below us stood Polyphemus and Grover, still in his wedding 
dress. Clarisse was tied up, hanging upside down over a pot of boiling water. I 
was half hoping to see Tyson down there, too. Even if he’d been in danger, at 
least I would’ve known he was alive. But there was no sign of him. 

“Hmm,” Polyphemus pondered. “Eat loudmouth girl now or wait for 
wedding feast? What does my bride think?” 

He turned to Grover, who backed up and almost tripped over his completed 
bridal train. “Oh, um, I’m not hungry right now, dear. Perhaps-“ 

“Did you say bride?” Clarisse demanded. “Who-Grover?” 

Next to me, Annabeth muttered, “Shut up. She has to shut up.” 

Polyphemus glowered. “What ‘Grover’?” 

“The satyr!” Clarisse yelled. 

“Oh!” Grover yelped. “The poor thing’s brain is boiling from that hot water. 
Pull her down, dear!” 

Polyphemus’s eyelids narrowed over his baleful milky eye, as if he were 
trying to see Clarisse more clearly. 

The Cyclops was an even more horrible sight than he had been in my 
dreams. Partly because his rancid smell was now up close and personal. Partly 
because he was dressed in his wedding outfit-a crude kilt and shoulder-wrap, 
stitched together from baby-blue tuxedoes, as if the he’d skinned an entire 
wedding party. 

“What satyr?” asked Polyphemus. “Satyrs are good eating. You bring me a 
satyr?” 

“No, you big idiot!” bellowed Clarisse. “That satyr! Grover! The one in the 
wedding dress!” 

I wanted to wring Clarisse’s neck, but it was too late. All I could do was 
watch as Polyphemus turned and ripped off Grover’s wedding veil-revealing his 
curly hair, his scruffy adolescent beard, his tiny horns. 

Polyphemus breathed heavily, trying to contain his anger. “I don’t see very 
well,” he growled. “Not since many years ago when the other hero stabbed me in 
eye. But YOU’RE-NO-LADY-CYCLOPS!” 

The Cyclops grabbed Grover’s dress and tore it away. Underneath, the old 
Grover reappeared in his jeans and T-shirt. He yelped and ducked as the monster 
swiped over his head. 

“Stop!” Grover pleaded. “Don’t eat me raw! I-I have a good recipe!” 


I reached for my sword, but Annabeth hissed, “Wait!” 

Polyphemus was hesitating, a boulder in his hand, ready to smash his 
would-be bride. 

“Recipe?” he asked Grover. 

“Oh y-yes! You don’t want to eat me raw. You’ll get E coli and botulism 
and all sorts of horrible things. I?ll taste much better grilled over a slow fire. 
With mango chutney! You could go get some mangos right now, down there in 
the woods. I’ Il just wait here.” 

The monster pondered this. My heart hammered against my ribs. I figured 
I'd die if I charged. But I couldn’t let the monster kill Grover. 

“Grilled satyr with mango chutney,” Polyphemus mused. He looked back at 
Clarisse, still hanging over the pot of boiling water. “You a satyr, too?” 

“No, you overgrown pile of dung!” she yelled. “I’m a girl! The daughter of 
Ares! Now untie me so I can rip your arms off!” 

“Rip my arms off,” Polyphemus repeated. 

“And stuff them down your throat!” 

“You got spunk.” 

“Let me down!” 

Polyphemus snatched up Grover as if he were a wayward puppy. “Have to 
graze sheep now. Wedding postponed until tonight. Then we’ ll eat satyr for the 
main course!” 

“But ... you’re still getting married?” Grover sounded hurt. “Who’s the 
bride?” 

Polyphemus looked toward the boiling pot. 

Clarisse made a strangled sound. “Oh, no! You can’t be serious. I’m not-“ 

Before Annabeth or I could do anything, Polyphemus plucked her off the 
rope like she was a ripe apple, and tossed her and Grover deep into the cave. 
“Make yourself comfortable! I come back at sundown for big event!” 

Then the Cyclops whistled, and a mixed flock of goats and sheep-smaller 
than the man-eaters-flooded out of the cave and past their master. As they went 
to pasture, Polyphemus patted some on the back and called them by name- 
Beltbuster, Tammany, Lockhart, etc. 

When the last sheep had waddled out, Polyphemus rolled a boulder in front 
of the doorway as easily as I would close a refrigerator door, shutting off the 
sound of Clarisse and Grover screaming inside. 

“Mangos,” Polyphemus grumbled to himself. “What are mangos?” 

He strolled off down the mountain in his baby-blue groom’s outfit, leaving 
us alone with a pot of boiling water and a six-ton boulder. 

We tried for what seemed like hours, but it was no good. The boulder 


wouldn’t move. We yelled into the cracks, tapped on the rock, did everything we 
could think of to get a signal to Grover, but if he heard us, we couldn’t tell. 

Even if by some miracle we managed to kill Polyphemus, it wouldn’t do us 
any good. Grover and Clarisse would die inside that sealed cave. The only way 
to move the rock was to have the Cyclops do it. 

In total frustration, I stabbed Riptide against the boulder. Sparks flew, but 
nothing else happened. A large rock is not the kind of enemy you can fight with 
a magic sword. 

Annabeth and I sat on the ridge in despair and watched the distant baby- 
blue shape of the Cyclops as he moved among his flocks. He had wisely divided 
his regular animals from his man-eating sheep, putting each group on either side 
of the huge crevice that divided the island. The only way across was the rope 
bridge, and the planks were much too far apart for sheep hooves. 

We watched as Polyphemus visited his carnivorous flock on the far side. 
Unfortunately, they didn’t eat him. In fact, they didn’t seem to bother him at all. 
He fed them chunks of mystery meat from a great wicker basket, which only 
reinforced the feelings I’d been having since Circe turned me into a guinea pig- 
that maybe it was time I joined Grover and became a vegetarian. 

“Trickery,” Annabeth decided. “We can’t beat him by force, so we’ll have 
to use trickery.” 

“Okay,” I said. “What trick?’ 

“T haven’t figured that part out yet.” 

“Great.” 

“Polyphemus will have to move the rock to let the sheep inside.” 

“At sunset,” I said. “Which is when he’ll marry Clarisse and have Grover 
for dinner. I’m not sure which is grosser.” 

“T could get inside,” she said, “invisibly.” 

“What about me?” 

“The sheep,” Annabeth mused. She gave me one of those sly looks that 
always made me wary. “How much do you like sheep?” 

“Just don’t let go!” Annabeth said, standing invisibly somewhere off to my 
right. That was easy for her to say. She wasn’t hanging upside down from the 
belly of a sheep. 

Now, [ll admit it wasn’t as hard as I’d thought. I’d crawled under a car 
before to change my mom?’s oil, and this wasn’t too different. The sheep didn’t 
care. Even the Cyclops’s smallest sheep were big enough to support my weight, 
and they had thick wool. I just twirled the stuff into handles for my hands, 
hooked my feet against the sheep’s thigh bones, and presto-I felt like a baby 
wallaby, riding around against the sheep’s chest, trying to keep the wool out of 


my mouth and my nose. 

In case you’re wondering, the underside of a sheep doesn’t smell that great. 
Imagine a winter sweater that’s been dragged through the mud and left in the 
laundry hamper for a week. Something like that. 

The sun was going down. 

No sooner was I in position than the Cyclops roared, “Oy! Goaties! 
Sheepies!” 

The flock dutifully began trudging back up the slopes toward the cave. 

“This is it!” Annabeth whispered. “I'll be close by. Don’t worry.” 

I made a silent promise to the gods that if we survived this, I’d tell 
Annabeth she was a genius. The frightening thing was, I knew the gods would 
hold me to it. 

My sheep taxi started plodding up the hill. After a hundred yards, my hands 
and feet started to hurt from holding on. I gripped the sheep’s wool more tightly, 
and the animal made a grumbling sound. I didn’t blame it. I wouldn’t want 
anybody rock climbing in my hair either. But if I didn’t hold on, I was sure I’d 
fall off right there in front of the monster. 

“Hasenpfeffer!” the Cyclops said, patting one of the sheep in front of me. 
“Einstein! Widget-eh there, Widget!” 

Polyphemus patted my sheep and nearly knocked me to the ground. 
“Putting on some extra mutton there?” 

Uh-oh, I thought. Here it comes. 

But Polyphemus just laughed and swatted the sheep’s rear end, propelling 
us forward. “Go on, fatty! Soon Polyphemus will eat you for breakfast!” 

And just like that, I was in the cave. 

I could see the last of the sheep coming inside. If Annabeth didn’t pull off 
her distraction soon ... 

The Cyclops was about to roll the stone back into place, when from 
somewhere outside Annabeth shouted, “Hello, ugly!” 

Polyphemus stiffened. “Who said that?” 

“Nobody!” Annabeth yelled. 

That got exactly the reaction she’d been hoping for. The monster’s face 
turned red with rage. 

“Nobody!” Polyphemus yelled back. “I remember you!” 

“You’re too stupid to remember anybody,” Annabeth taunted. “Much less 
Nobody.” 

I hoped to the gods she was already moving when she said that, because 
Polyphemus bellowed furiously, grabbed the nearest boulder (which happened to 
be his front door) and threw it toward the sound of Annabeth’s voice. I heard the 


rock smash into a thousand fragments. 

For a terrible moment, there was silence. Then Annabeth shouted, “You 
haven’t learned to throw any better, either!” 

Polyphemus howled. “Come here! Let me kill you, Nobody!” 

“You can’t kill Nobody, you stupid oaf,” she taunted. “Come find me!” 

Polyphemus barreled down the hill toward her voice. 

Now, the “Nobody” thing wouldn’t have made sense to anybody, but 
Annabeth had explained to me that it was the name Odysseus had used to trick 
Polyphemus centuries ago, right before he poked the Cyclops’s eye out with a 
large hot stick. Annabeth had figured Polyphemus would still have a grudge 
about that name, and she was right. In his frenzy to find his old enemy, he forgot 
about resealing the cave entrance. Apparently, he didn’t even stop to consider 
that Annabeth’s voice was female, whereas the first Nobody had been male. On 
the other hand, he’d wanted to marry Grover, so he couldn’t have been all that 
bright about the whole male/female thing. 

I just hoped Annabeth could stay alive and keep distracting him long 
enough for me to find Grover and Clarisse. 

I dropped off my ride, patted Widget on the head, and apologized. I 
searched the main room, but there was no sign of Grover or Clarisse. I pushed 
through the crowd of sheep and goats toward the back of the cave. 

Even though I’d dreamed about this place, I had a hard time finding my 
way through the maze. I ran down corridors littered with bones, past rooms full 
of sheepskin rugs and life-size cement sheep that I recognized as the work of 
Medusa. There were collections of sheep T-shirts; large tubs of lanolin cream; 
and wooly coats, socks, and hats with ram’s horns. Finally, I found the spinning 
room, where Grover was huddled in the corner, trying to cut Clarisse’s bonds 
with a pair of safety scissors. 

“Tt’s no good,” Clarisse said. “This rope is like iron!” 

“Just a few more minutes!” 

“Grover,” she cried, exasperated. “You’ve been working at it for hours!” 
And then they saw me. 

“Percy?” Clarisse said. “You’re supposed to be blown up!” 

“Good to see you, too. Now hold still while I-“ 

“Perrrrrcy!” Grover bleated and tackled me with a goat-hug. “You heard 
You came!” 

“Yeah, buddy,” I said. “Of course I came.” 

“Where’s Annabeth?” 

“Outside,” I said. “But there’s no time to talk. Clarisse, hold still.” 

I uncapped Riptide and sliced off her ropes. She stood stiffly, rubbing her 


me: 


wrists. She glared at me for a moment, then looked at the ground and mumbled, 
“Thanks.” 

“You’re welcome,” I said. “Now, was anyone else on board your lifeboat?” 

Clarisse looked surprised. “No. Just me. Everybody else aboard the 
Birmingham ... well, I didn’t even know you guys made it out.” 

I looked down, trying not to believe that my last hope of seeing Tyson alive 
had just been crushed. “Okay. Come on, then. We have to help-“ 

An explosion echoed through the cave, followed by a scream that told me 
we might be too late. It was Annabeth crying out in fear. 


FIFTEEN 


NOBODY GETS 


THE FLEECE 


“T got Nobody!” Polyphemus gloated. 

We crept to the cave entrance and saw the Cyclops, grinning wickedly, 
holding up empty air. The monster shook his fist, and a baseball cap fluttered to 
the ground. There was Annabeth, hanging upside down by her legs. 

“Hah!” the Cyclops said. “Nasty invisible girl! Already got feisty one for 
wife. Means you gotta be grilled with mango chutney!” 

Annabeth struggled, but she looked dazed. She had a nasty cut on her 
forehead. Her eyes were glassy. 

“T’ll rush him,” I whispered to Clarisse. “Our ship is around the back of the 
island. You and Grover-“ 

“No way,” they said at the same time. Clarisse had armed herself with a 
highly collectible rams-horn spear from the Cyclops’s cave. Grover had found a 
sheep’s thigh bone, which he didn’t look too happy about, but he was gripping it 
like a club, ready to attack. 

“We’ ll take him together,” Clarisse growled. 

“Yeah,” Grover said. Then he blinked, like he couldn’t believe he’d just 
agreed with Clarisse about something. 

“All right,” I said. “Attack plan Macedonia.” 

They nodded. We’d all taken the same training courses at Camp Half- 
Blood. They knew what I was talking about. They would sneak around either 
side and attack the Cyclops from the flanks while I held his attention in the front. 
Probably what this meant was that we’d all die instead of just me, but I was 
grateful for the help. 

I hefted my sword and shouted, “Hey, Ugly!” 

The giant whirled toward me. “Another one? Who are you?” 

“Put down my friend. I’m the one who insulted you.” 

“You are Nobody?” 

“That’s right, you smelly bucket of nose drool!” It didn’t sound quite as 
good as Annabeth’s insults, but it was all I could think of. “I’m Nobody and I’m 
proud of it! Now, put her down and get over here. I want to stab your eye out 
again.” 

“RAAAR!” he bellowed. 

The good news: he dropped Annabeth. The bad news: he dropped her 
headfirst onto the rocks, where she lay motionless as a rag doll. 

The other bad news: Polyphemus barreled toward me, a thousand smelly 


pounds of Cyclops that I would have to fight with a very small sword. 

“For Pan!” Grover rushed in from the right. He threw his sheep bone, which 
bounced harmlessly off the monster’s forehead. Clarisse ran in from the left and 
set her spear against the ground just in time for the Cyclops to step on it. He 
wailed in pain, and Clarisse dove out of the way to avoid getting trampled. But 
the Cyclops just plucked out the shaft like a large splinter and kept advancing on 
me. 

I moved in with Riptide. 

The monster made a grab for me. I rolled aside and stabbed him in the 
thigh. 

I was hoping to see him disintegrate, but this monster was much too big and 
powerful. 

“Get Annabeth!” I yelled at Grover. 

He rushed over, grabbed her invisibility cap, and picked her up while 
Clarisse and I tried to keep Polyphemus distracted. 

I have to admit, Clarisse was brave. She charged the Cyclops again and 
again. He pounded the ground, stomped at her, grabbed at her, but she was too 
quick. And as soon as she made an attack, I followed up by stabbing the monster 
in the toe or the ankle or the hand. 

But we couldn’t keep this up forever. Eventually we would tire or the 
monster would get in a lucky shot. It would only take one hit to kill us. 

Out of the corner of my eye, I saw Grover carrying Annabeth across the 
rope bridge. It wouldn’t have been my first choice, given the man-eating sheep 
on the other side, but at the moment that looked better than this side of the 
chasm, and it gave me an idea. 

“Fall back!” I told Clarisse. 

She rolled away as the Cyclops’s fist smashed the olive tree beside her. 

We ran for the bridge, Polyphemus right behind us. He was cut up and 
hobbling from so many wounds, but all we’d done was slow him down and 
make him mad. 

“Grind you into sheep chow!” he promised. “A thousand curses on 
Nobody!” 

“Faster!” I told Clarisse. 

We tore down the hill. The bridge was our only chance. Grover had just 
made it to the other side and was setting Annabeth down. We had to make it 
across, too, before the giant caught us. 

“Grover!” I yelled. “Get Annabeth’s knife!” 

His eyes widened when he saw the Cyclops behind us, but he nodded like 
he understood. As Clarisse and I scrambled across the bridge, Grover began 


sawing at the ropes. 

The first strand went snap! 

Polyphemus bounded after us, making the bridge sway wildly. 

The ropes were now half cut. Clarisse and I dove for solid ground, landing 
beside Grover. I made a wild slash with my sword and cut the remaining ropes. 

The bridge fell away into the chasm, and the Cyclops howled ... with 
delight, because he was standing right next to us. 

“Failed!” he yelled gleefully. “Nobody failed!” 

Clarisse and Grover tried to charge him, but the monster swatted them aside 
like flies. 

My anger swelled. I couldn’t believe I’d come this far, lost Tyson, suffered 
through so much, only to fail-stopped by a big stupid monster in a baby-blue 
tuxedo kilt. Nobody was going to swat down my friends like that! I mean ... 
nobody, not Nobody. Ah, you know what I mean. 

Strength coursed through my body. I raised my sword and attacked, 
forgetting that I was hopelessly outmatched. I jabbed the Cyclops in the belly. 
When he doubled over I smacked him in the nose with the hilt of my sword. I 
slashed and kicked and bashed until the next thing I knew, Polyphemus was 
sprawled on his back, dazed and groaning, and I was standing above him, the tip 
of my sword hovering over his eye. 

“Uhhhhhbhh,” Polyphemus moaned. 

“Percy!” Grover gasped. “How did you-“ 

“Please, noooo!” the Cyclops moaned, pitifully staring up at me. His nose 
was bleeding. A tear welled in the comer of his half-blind eye. “M-m-my 
sheepies need me. Only trying to protect my sheep!” 

He began to sob. 

I had won. All I had to do was stab-one quick strike. 

“Kill him!” Clarisse yelled. “What are you waiting for?” 

The Cyclops sounded so heartbroken, just like ... like Tyson. 

“He’s a Cyclops!” Grover warned. “Don’t trust him!” 

I knew he was right. I knew Annabeth would’ve said the same thing. 

But Polyphemus sobbed ... and for the first time it sank in that he was a son 
of Poseidon, too. Like Tyson. Like me. How could I just kill him in cold blood? 

“We only want the Fleece,” I told the monster. “Will you agree to let us take 
ike 

“No!” Clarisse shouted. “Kill him!” 

The monster sniffed. “My beautiful Fleece. Prize of my collection. Take it, 
cruel human. Take it and go in peace.” 

“T’m going to step back slowly,” I told the monster. “One false move ...” 


Polyphemus nodded like he understood. 

I stepped back ... and as fast as a cobra, Polyphemus smacked me to the 
edge of the cliff. 

“Foolish mortal!” he bellowed, rising to his feet. “Take my Fleece? Ha! I 
eat you first.” 

He opened his enormous mouth, and I knew that his rotten molars were the 
last things I would ever see. 

Then something went whoosh over my head and thump! 

A rock the size of a basketball sailed into Polyphemus’s throat-a beautiful 
three-pointer, nothing but net. The Cyclops choked, trying to swallow the 
unexpected pill. He staggered backward, but there was no place to stagger. His 
heel slipped, the edge of the cliff crumbled, and the great Polyphemus made 
chicken wing motions that did nothing to help him fly as he tumbled into the 
chasm. 

I turned. 

Halfway down the path to the beach, standing completely unharmed in the 
midst of a flock of killer sheep, was an old friend. 

“Bad Polyphemus,” Tyson said. “Not all Cyclopes as nice as we look.” 

Tyson gave us the short version: Rainbow the hippocampus-who’d 
apparently been following us ever since the Long Island Sound, waiting for 
Tyson to play with him-had found Tyson sinking beneath the wreckage of the 
CSS Birmingham and pulled him to safety. He and Tyson had been searching the 
Sea of Monsters ever since, trying to find us, until Tyson caught the scent of 
sheep and found this island. 

I wanted to hug the big oaf, except he was standing in the middle of killer 
sheep. “Tyson, thank the gods. Annabeth is hurt!” 

“You thank the gods she is hurt?” he asked, puzzled. 

“No!” I knelt beside Annabeth and was worried sick by what I saw. The 
gash on her forehead was worse than I’d realized. Her hairline was sticky with 
blood. Her skin was pale and clammy. 

Grover and I exchanged nervous looks. Then an idea came to me. “Tyson, 
the Fleece. Can you get it for me?” 

“Which one?” Tyson said, looking around at the hundreds of sheep. 

“In the tree!” I said. “The gold one!” 

“Oh. Pretty. Yes.” 

Tyson lumbered over, careful not to step on the sheep. If any of us had tried 
to approach the Fleece, we would’ve been eaten alive, but I guess Tyson smelled 
like Polyphemus, because the flock didn’t bother him at all. They just cuddled up 
to him and bleated affectionately, as though they expected to get sheep treats 


from the big wicker basket. Tyson reached up and lifted the Fleece off its branch. 
Immediately the leaves on the oak tree turned yellow. Tyson started wading back 
toward me, but I yelled, “No time! Throw it!” 

The gold ram skin sailed through the air like a glittering shag Frisbee. I 
caught it with a grunt. It was heavier than I’d expected-sixty or seventy pounds 
of precious gold wool. 

I spread it over Annabeth, covering everything but her face, and prayed 
silently to all the gods I could think of, even the ones I didn’t like. 

Please. Please. 

The color returned to her face. Her eyelids fluttered open. The cut on her 
forehead began to close. She saw Grover and said weakly, “You’re not... 
married?” 

Grover grinned. “No. My friends talked me out of it.” 

“Annabeth,” I said, “just lay still.” 

But despite our protests she sat up, and I noticed that the cut on her face 
was almost completely healed. She looked a lot better. In fact, she shimmered 
with health, as if someone had injected her with glitter. 

Meanwhile, Tyson was starting to have trouble with the sheep. “Down!” he 
told them as they tried to climb him, looking for food. A few were sniffing in our 
direction. “No, sheepies. This way! Come here!” 

They heeded him, but it was obvious they were hungry, and they were 
Starting to realize Tyson didn’t have any treats for them. They wouldn’t hold out 
forever with so much fresh meat nearby. 

“We have to go,” I said. “Our ship is...” The Queen Anne’s Revenge was a 
very long way away. The shortest route was across the chasm, and we’d just 
destroyed the only bridge. The only other possibility was through the sheep. 

“Tyson,” I called, “can you lead the flock as far away as possible?” 

“The sheep want food.” 

“T know! They want people food! Just lead them away from the path. Give 
us time to get to the beach. Then join us there.” 

Tyson looked doubtful, but he whistled. “Come, sheepies! Um, people food 
this way!” 

He jogged off into the meadow, the sheep in pursuit. 

“Keep the Fleece around you,” I told Annabeth. “Just in case you’re not 
fully healed yet. Can you stand?” 

She tried, but her face turned pale again. “Ohh. Not fully healed.” 

Clarisse dropped next to her and felt her chest, which made Annabeth gasp. 

“Ribs broken,” Clarisse said. “They’re mending, but definitely broken.” 

“How can you tell?” I asked. 


Clarisse glared at me. “Because I’ve broken a few, runt! I’ll have to carry 
her.” 

Before I could argue, Clarisse picked up Annabeth like a sack of flour and 
lugged her down to the beach. Grover and I followed. 

As soon as we got to the edge of the water, I concentrated on the Queen 
Anne’s Revenge. I willed it to raise anchor and come to me. After a few anxious 
minutes, I saw the ship rounding the tip of the island. 

“Incoming!” Tyson yelled. He was bounding down the path to join us, the 
sheep about fifty yards behind, bleating in frustration as their Cyclops friend ran 
away without feeding them. 

“They probably won’t follow us into the water,” I told the others. “All we 
have to do is swim for the ship.” 

“With Annabeth like this?” Clarisse protested. 

“We can do it,” I insisted. I was starting to feel confident again. I was back 
in my home turf-the sea. “Once we get to the ship, we’re home free.” 

We almost made it, too. 

We were just wading past the entrance to the ravine, when we heard a 
tremendous roar and saw Polyphemus, scraped up and bruised but still very 
much alive, his baby-blue wedding outfit in tatters, splashing toward us with a 
boulder in each hand. 


SIXTEEN 


I GO DOWN 


WITH THE SHIP 


“You’d think he’d run out of rocks,” I muttered. 

“Swim for it!” Grover said. 

He and Clarisse plunged into the surf. Annabeth hung on to Clarisse’s neck 
and tried to paddle with one hand, the wet Fleece weighing her down. 

But the monster’s attention wasn’t on the Fleece. 

“You, young Cyclops!” Polyphemus roared. “Traitor to your kind!” 

Tyson froze. 

“Don’t listen to him!” I pleaded. “Come on.” 

I pulled Tyson’s arm, but I might as well have been pulling a mountain. He 
turned and faced the older Cyclops. “I am not a traitor.” 

“You serve mortals!” Polyphemus shouted. “Thieving humans!” 

Polyphemus threw his first boulder. Tyson swatted it aside with his fist. 

“Not a traitor,” Tyson said. “And you are not my kind.” 

“Death or victory!” Polyphemus charged into the surf, but his foot was still 
wounded. He immediately stumbled and fell on his face. That would’ve been 
funny, except he started to get up again, spitting salt water and growling. 

“Percy!” Clarisse yelled. “Come on!” 

They were almost to the ship with the Fleece. If I could just keep the 
monster distracted a little longer ... 

“Go,” Tyson told me. “I will hold Big Ugly.” 

“No! He’ll kill you.” I’d already lost Tyson once. I wasn’t going to lose him 
again. “We’ll fight him together.” 

“Together,” Tyson agreed. 

I drew my sword. 

Polyphemus advanced carefully, limping worse than ever. But there was 
nothing wrong with his throwing arm. He chucked his second boulder. I dove to 
one side, but I still would’ve been squashed if Tyson’s fist hadn’t blasted the 
rock to rubble. 

I willed the sea to rise. A twenty-foot wave surged up, lifting me on its 
crest. I rode toward the Cyclops and kicked him in the eye, leaping over his head 
as the water blasted him onto the beach. 

“Destroy you!” Polyphemus spluttered. “Fleece stealer!” 

“You stole the Fleece!” I yelled. “You’ve been using it to lure satyrs to their 
deaths!” 

“So? Satyrs good eating!” 


“The Fleece should be used to heal! It belongs to the children of the gods!” 

“T am a child of the gods!” Polyphemus swiped at me, but I sidestepped. 
“Father Poseidon, curse this thief!” He was blinking hard now, like he could 
barely see, and I realized he was targeting by the sound of my voice. 

“Poseidon won’t curse me,” I said, backing up as the Cyclops grabbed air. 
“T’m his son, too. He won’t play favorites.” 

Polyphemus roared. He ripped an olive tree out of the side of the cliff and 
smashed it where I’d been standing a moment before. “Humans not the same! 
Nasty, tricky, lying!” 

Grover was helping Annabeth aboard the ship. Clarisse was waving 
frantically at me, telling me to come on. 

Tyson worked his way around Polyphemus, trying to get behind him. 

“Young one!” the older Cyclops called. “Where are you? Help me!” 

Tyson stopped. 

“You weren’t raised right!” Polyphemus wailed, shaking his olive tree club. 
“Poor orphaned brother! Help me!” 

No one moved. No sound but the ocean and my own heartbeat. Then Tyson 
stepped forward, raising his hands defensively. “Don’t fight, Cyclops brother. 
Put down the-“ 

Polyphemus spun toward his voice. 

“Tyson!” I shouted. 

The tree struck him with such force it would’ve flattened me into a Percy 
pizza with extra olives. Tyson flew backward, plowing a trench in the sand. 
Polyphemus charged after him, but I shouted, “No!” and lunged as far as I could 
with Riptide. I’d hoped to sting Polyphemus in the back of the thigh, but I 
managed to leap a little bit higher. 

“Blaaaaah!” Polyphemus bleated just like his sheep, and swung at me with 
his tree. 

I dove, but still got raked across the back by a dozen jagged branches. I was 
bleeding and bruised and exhausted. The guinea pig inside me wanted to bolt. 
But I swallowed down my fear. 

Polyphemus swung the tree again, but this time I was ready. I grabbed a 
branch as it passed, ignoring the pain in my hands as I was jerked skyward, and 
let the Cyclops lift me into the air. At the top of the arc I let go and fell straight 
against the giant’s face-landing with both feet on his already damaged eye. 

Polyphemus yowled in pain. Tyson tackled him, pulling him down. I landed 
next to them-sword in hand, within striking distance of the monster’s heart. But I 
locked eyes with Tyson, and I knew I couldn’t do it. It just wasn’t right. 

“Let him go,” I told Tyson. “Run.” 


With one last mighty effort, Tyson pushed the cursing older Cyclops away, 
and we ran for the surf. 

“T will smash you.’” Polyphemus yelled, doubling over in pain. His 
enormous hands cupped over his eye. 

Tyson and I plunged into the waves. 

“Where are you?” Polyphemus screamed. He picked up his tree club and 
threw it into the water. It splashed off to our right. 

I summoned up a current to carry us, and we started gaining speed. I was 
beginning to think we might make it to the ship, when Clarisse shouted from the 
deck, “Yeah, Jackson! In your face, Cyclops!” 

Shut up, I wanted to yell. 

“Rartr!” Polyphemus picked up a boulder. He threw it toward the sound of 
Clarisse’s voice, but it fell short, narrowly missing Tyson and me. 

“Yeah, yeah!” Clarisse taunted. “You throw like a wimp! Teach you to try 
marrying me, you idiot!” 

“Clarisse!” I yelled, unable to stand it. “Shut up!” 

Too late. Polyphemus threw another boulder, and this time I watched 
helplessly as it sailed over my head and crashed through the hull of the Queen 
Anne’s Revenge. 

You wouldn’t believe how fast a ship can sink. The Queen Anne’s Revenge 
creaked and groaned and listed forward like it was going down a playground 
slide. 

I cursed, willing the sea to push us faster, but the ship’s masts were already 
going under. 

“Dive!” I told Tyson. And as another rock sailed over our heads, we 
plunged underwater. 

My friends were sinking fast, trying to swim, without luck, in the bubbly 
trail of the ship’s wreckage. 

Not many people realize that when a ship goes down, it acts like a sinkhole, 
pulling down everything around it. Clarisse was a strong swimmer, but even she 
wasn’t making any progress. Grover frantically kicked with his hooves. 
Annabeth was hanging on to the Fleece, which flashed in the water like a wave 
of new pennies. 

I swam toward them, knowing that I might not have the strength to pull my 
friends out. Worse, pieces of timber were swirling around them; none of my 
power with water would help if I got whacked on the head by a beam. 

We need help, I thought. 

Yes. Tyson’s voice, loud and clear in my head. 

I looked over at him, startled. I'd heard Nereids and other water spirits 


speak to me underwater before, but it never occurred to me ... Tyson was a son 
of Poseidon. We could communicate with each other. 

Rainbow, Tyson said. 

I nodded, then closed my eyes and concentrated, adding my voice to 
Tyson’s: RAINBOW! We need you! 

Immediately, shapes shimmered in the darkness below-three horses with 
fish tails, galloping upward faster than dolphins. Rainbow and his friends 
glanced in our direction and seemed to read our thoughts. They whisked into the 
wreckage, and a moment later burst upward in a cloud of bubbles-Grover, 
Annabeth, and Clarisse each clinging to the neck of a hippocampus. 

Rainbow, the largest, had Clarisse. He raced over to us and allowed Tyson 
to grab hold of his mane. His friend who bore Annabeth did the same for me. 

We broke the surface of the water and raced away from Polyphemus’s 
island. Behind us, I could hear the Cyclops roaring in triumph, “I did it! I finally 
sank Nobody!” 

I hoped he never found out he was wrong. 

We skimmed across the sea as the island shrank to a dot and then 
disappeared. 

“Did it,” Annabeth muttered in exhaustion. “We ...” 

She slumped against the neck of the hippocampus and instantly fell asleep. 

I didn’t know how far the hippocampi could take us. I didn’t know where 
we were going. I just propped up Annabeth so she wouldn’t fall off, covered her 
in the Golden Fleece that we’d been through so much to get, and said a silent 
prayer of thanks. 

Which reminded me ... I still owed the gods a debt. 

“You’re a genius,” I told Annabeth quietly. 

Then I put my head against the Fleece, and before I knew it, I was asleep, 
too. 


SEVENTEEN 


WE GET A SURPRISE 


ON MIAMI BEACH 


“Percy, wake up.” 

Salt water splashed my face. Annabeth was shaking my shoulder. 

In the distance, the sun was setting behind a city skyline. I could see a 
beachside highway lined with palm trees, storefronts glowing with red and blue 
neon, a harbor filled with sailboats and cruise ships. 

“Miami, I think,” Annabeth said. “But the hippocampi are acting funny.” 

Sure enough, our fishy friends had slowed down and were whinnying and 
swimming in circles, sniffing the water. They didn’t look happy. One of them 
sneezed. I could tell what they were thinking. 

“This is as far as they’ll take us,” I said. “Too many humans. Too much 
pollution. We’Il have to swim to shore on our own.” 

None of us was very psyched about that, but we thanked Rainbow and his 
friends for the ride. Tyson cried a little. He unfastened the makeshift saddle pack 
he’d made, which contained his tool kit and a couple of other things he’d 
salvaged from the Birmingham wreck. He hugged Rainbow around the neck, 
gave him a soggy mango he’d picked up on the island, and said good-bye. 

Once the hippocampi’s white manes disappeared into the sea, we swam for 
shore. The waves pushed us forward, and in no time we were back in the mortal 
world. We wandered along the cruise line docks, pushing through crowds of 
people arriving for vacations. Porters bustled around with carts of luggage. Taxi 
drivers yelled at each other in Spanish and tried to cut in line for customers. If 
anybody noticed us-five kids dripping wet and looking like they’d just had a 
fight with a monster-they didn’t let on. 

Now that we were back among mortals, Tyson’s single eye had blurred 
from the Mist. Grover had put on his cap and sneakers. Even the Fleece had 
transformed from a sheepskin to a red-and-gold high school letter jacket with a 
large glittery Omega on the pocket. 

Annabeth ran to the nearest newspaper box and checked the date on the 
Miami Herald. She cursed. “June eighteenth! We’ve been away from camp ten 
days!” 

“That’s impossible!” Clarisse said. 

But I knew it wasn’t. Time traveled differently in monstrous places. 

“Thalia’s tree must be almost dead,” Grover wailed. “We have to get the 
Fleece back tonight.” 

Clarisse slumped down on the pavement. “How are we supposed to do 


that?” Her voice trembled. “We’re hundreds of miles away. No money. No ride. 
This is just like the Oracle said. It’s your fault, Jackson! If you hadn’t 
interfered-“ 

“Percy’s fault?!” Annabeth exploded. “Clarisse, how can you say that? You 
are the biggest-“ 

“Stop it!” I said. 

Clarisse put her head in hands. Annabeth stomped her foot in frustration. 

The thing was: I’d almost forgotten this quest was supposed to be 
Clarisse’s. For a scary moment, I saw things from her point of view. How would 
I feel if a bunch of other heroes had butted in and made me look bad? 

I thought about what I’d overheard in the boiler room of the CSS 
Birmingham-Ares yelling at Clarisse, warning her that she’d better not fail. Ares 
couldn’t care less about the camp, but if Clarisse made him look bad ... 

“Clarisse,” I said, “what did the Oracle tell you exactly?” 

She looked up. I thought she was going to tell me off, but instead she took a 
deep breath and recited her prophecy: 

“You shall sail the iron ship with warriors of bone, 

You shall find what you seek and make it your own, 

But despair for your life entombed within stone, 

And fail without friends, to fly home alone.” 

“Ouch,” Grover mumbled. 

“No,” I said. “No ... wait a minute. I’ve got it.” 

I searched my pockets for money, and found nothing but a golden drachma. 
“Does anybody have any cash?” 

Annabeth and Grover shook their heads morosely. Clarisse pulled a wet 
Confederate dollar from her pocket and sighed. 

“Cash?” Tyson asked hesitantly. “Like ... green paper?” 

I looked at him. “Yeah.” 

“Like the kind in duffel bags?” 

“Yeah, but we lost those bags days a-g-g-“ 

I stuttered to a halt as Tyson rummaged in his saddle pack and pulled out 
the Ziploc bag full of cash that Hermes had included in our supplies. 

“Tyson!” I said. “How did you-“ 

“Thought it was a feed bag for Rainbow,” he said. “Found it floating in sea, 
but only paper inside. Sorry.” 

He handed me the cash. Fives and tens, at least three hundred dollars. 

I ran to the curb and grabbed a taxi that was just letting out a family of 
cruise passengers. “Clarisse,” I yelled. “Come on. You’re going to the airport. 
Annabeth, give her the Fleece.” 


I’m not sure which of them looked more stunned as I took the Fleece letter 
jacket from Annabeth, tucked the cash into its pocket, and put it in Clarisse’s 
arms. 

Clarisse said, “You’d let me-“ 

“Tt’s your quest,” I said. “We only have enough money for one flight. 
Besides, I can’t travel by air. Zeus would blast me into a million pieces. That’s 
what the prophecy meant: you’d fail without friends, meaning you’d need our 
help, but you’d have to fly home alone. You have to get the Fleece back safely.” 

I could see her mind working-suspicious at first, wondering what trick I 
was playing, then finally deciding I meant what I said. 

She jumped in the cab. “You can count on me. I won’t fail.” 

“Not failing would be good.” 

The cab peeled out in a cloud of exhaust. The Fleece was on its way. 

“Percy,” Annabeth said, “that was so-“ 

“Generous?” Grover offered. 

“Insane,” Annabeth corrected. “You’re betting the lives of everybody at 
camp that Clarisse will get the Fleece safely back by tonight?” 

“Tt’s her quest,” I said. “She deserves a chance.” 

“Percy is nice,” Tyson said. 

“Percy is too nice,” Annabeth grumbled, but I couldn’t help thinking that 
maybe, just maybe, she was a little impressed. I’d surprised her, anyway. And 
that wasn’t easy to do. 

“Come on,” I told my friends. “Let’s find another way home.” 

That’s when I turned and found a sword’s point at my throat. 

“Hey, cuz,” said Luke. “Welcome back to the States.” 

His bear-man thugs appeared on either of side of us. One grabbed Annabeth 
and Grover by their T-shirt collars. The other tried to grab Tyson, but Tyson 
knocked him into a pile of luggage and roared at Luke. 

“Percy,” Luke said calmly, “tell your giant to back down or I’ll have Oreius 
bash your friends’ heads together.” 

Oreius grinned and raised Annabeth and Grover off the ground, kicking and 
screaming. 

“What do you want, Luke?” I growled. 

He smiled, the scar rippling on the side of his face. 

He gestured toward the end of the dock, and I noticed what should’ve been 
obvious. The biggest boat in port was the Princess Andromeda. 

“Why, Percy,” Luke said, “I want to extend my hospitality, of course.” 

The bear twins herded us aboard the Princess Andromeda. They threw us 
down on the aft deck in front of a swimming pool with sparkling fountains that 


sprayed into the air. A dozen of Luke’s assorted goons-snake people, 
Laistrygonians, demigods in battle armor-had gathered to watch us get some 
“hospitality.” 

“And so, the Fleece,” Luke mused. “Where is it?” He looked us over, 
prodding my shirt with the tip of his sword, poking Grover’s jeans. 

“Hey!” Grover yelled. “That’s real goat fur under there!” 

“Sorry, old friend.” Luke smiled. “Just give me the Fleece and I’ll leave you 
to return to your, ah, little nature quest.” 

“Blaa-ha-ha!” Grover protested. “Some old friend!” 

“Maybe you didn’t hear me.” Luke’s voice was dangerously calm. “Where- 
is-the-Fleece?” 

“Not here,” I said. I probably shouldn’t have told him anything, but it felt 
good to throw the truth in his face. “We sent it on ahead of us. You messed up.” 

Luke’s eyes narrowed. “You’re lying. You couldn’t have ...” His face 
reddened as a horrible possibility occurred to him. “Clarisse?” 

I nodded. 

“You trusted ... you gave ...” 

“Yeah.” 

“Agrius!” 

The bear giant flinched. “Y-yes?” 

“Get below and prepare my steed. Bring it to the deck. I need to fly to the 
Miami Airport, fast.’” 

“But, boss-“ 

“Do it!” Luke screamed. “Or I’ll feed you to the drakon!” 

The bear-man gulped and lumbered down the stairs. Luke paced in front of 
the swimming pool, cursing in Ancient Greek, gripping his sword so tight his 
knuckles turned white. 

The rest of Luke’s crew looked uneasy. Maybe they’d never seen their boss 
so unhinged before. 

I started thinking ... If I could use Luke’s anger, get him to talk so 
everybody could hear how crazy his plans were ... 

I looked at the swimming pool, at the fountains spraying mist into the air, 
making a rainbow in the sunset. And suddenly I had an idea. 

“You’ve been toying with us all along,” I said. “You wanted us to bring you 
the Fleece and save you the trouble of getting it.” 

Luke scowled. “Of course, you idiot! And you’ve messed everything up!” 

“Traitor!” I dug my last gold drachma out of my pocket and threw it at 
Luke. As I expected, he dodged it easily. 

The coin sailed into the spray of rainbow-colored water. 


I hoped my prayer would be accepted in silence. I thought with all my 
heart: O goddess, accept my offering. 

“You tricked all of us!” I yelled at Luke. “Even DIONYSUS at CAMP 
HALF-BLOOD!” 

Behind Luke, the fountain began to shimmer, but I needed everyone’s 
attention on me, so I uncapped Riptide. 

Luke just sneered. “This is no time for heroics, Percy. Drop your puny little 
sword, or I’|l have you killed sooner rather than later.” 

“Who poisoned Thalia’s tree, Luke?” 

“T did, of course,” he snarled. “I already told you that. I used elder python 
venom, straight from the depths of Tartarus.” 

“Chiron had nothing to do with it?” 

“Ha! You know he would never do that. The old fool wouldn’t have the 
guts.” 

“You call it guts? Betraying your friends? Endangering the whole camp?” 

Luke raised his sword. “You don’t understand the half of it. I was going to 
let you take the Fleece ... once I was done with it.” 

That made me hesitate. Why would he let me take the Fleece? He must’ve 
been lying. But I couldn’t afford to lose his attention. 

“You were going to heal Kronos,” I said. 

“Yes! The Fleece’s magic would’ve sped his mending process by tenfold. 
But you haven’t stopped us, Percy. You’ve only slowed us down a little.” 

“And so you poisoned the tree, you betrayed Thalia, you set us up-all to 
help Kronos destroy the gods.” 

Luke gritted his teeth. “You know that! Why do you keep asking me?” 

“Because I want everybody in the audience to hear you.” 

“What audience?” 

Then his eyes narrowed. He looked behind him and his goons did the same. 
They gasped and stumbled back. 

Above the pool, shimmering in the rainbow mist, was an Iris-message 
vision of Dionysus, Tantalus, and the whole camp in the dining pavilion. They 
sat in stunned silence, watching us. 

“Well,” said Dionysus dryly, “some unplanned dinner entertainment.” 

“Mr. D, you heard him,” I said. “You all heard Luke. The poisoning of the 
tree wasn’t Chiron’s fault.” 

Mr. D sighed. “I suppose not.” 

“The Iris-message could be a trick,” Tantalus suggested, but his attention 
was mostly on his cheeseburger, which he was trying to corner with both hands. 

“T fear not,” Mr. D said, looking with distaste at Tantalus. “It appears I shall 


have to reinstate Chiron as activities director. I suppose I do miss the old horse’s 
pinochle games.” 

Tantalus grabbed the cheeseburger. It didn’t bolt away from him. He lifted it 
from the plate and stared at it in amazement, as if it were the largest diamond in 
the world. “TI got it!” he cackled. 

“We are no longer in need of your services, Tantalus,’ Mr. D announced. 

Tantalus looked stunned. “What? But-“ 

“You may return to the Underworld. You are dismissed.” 

“No! But-Noooooo000000!” 

As he dissolved into mist, his fingers clutched at the cheeseburger, trying to 
bring it to his mouth. But it was too late. He disappeared and the cheeseburger 
fell back onto its plate. The campers exploded into cheering. 

Luke bellowed with rage. He slashed his sword through the fountain and 
the Iris-message dissolved, but the deed was done. 

I was feeling pretty good about myself, until Luke turned and gave me a 
murderous look. 

“Kronos was right, Percy. You’re an unreliable weapon. You need to be 
replaced.” 

I wasn’t sure what he meant, but I didn’t have time to think about it. One of 
his men blew a brass whistle, and the deck doors flew open. A dozen more 
warriors poured out, making a circle around us, the brass tips of their spears 
bristling. 

Luke smiled at me. “You’ll never leave this boat alive.” 


EIGHTEEN 


THE PARTY PONIES 


INVADE 


“One on one,” I challenged Luke. “What are you afraid of?” 

Luke curled his lip. The soldiers who were about to kill us hesitated, 
waiting for his order. 

Before he could say anything, Agrius, the bear-man, burst onto the deck 
leading a flying horse. It was the first pure-black pegasus I’d ever seen, with 
wings like a giant raven. The pegasus mare bucked and whinnied. I could 
understand her thoughts. She was calling Agrius and Luke some names so bad 
Chiron would’ve washed her muzzle out with saddle soap. 

“Sir!” Agrius called, dodging a pegasus hoof. “Your steed is ready!” 

Luke kept his eyes on me. 

“T told you last summer, Percy,” he said. “You can’t bait me into a fight.” 

“And you keep avoiding one,” I noticed. “Scared your warriors will see you 
get whipped?” 

Luke glanced at his men, and he saw I’d trapped him. If he backed down 
now, he would look weak. If he fought me, he’d lose valuable time chasing after 
Clarisse. For my part, the best I could hope for was to distract him, giving my 
friends a chance to escape. If anybody could think of a plan to get them out of 
there, Annabeth could. On the downside, I knew how good Luke was at sword- 
fighting. 

“T’l] kill you quickly,” he decided, and raised his weapon. Backbiter was a 
foot longer than my own sword. Its blade glinted with an evil gray-and-gold light 
where the human steel had been melded with celestial bronze. I could almost feel 
the blade fighting against itself, like two opposing magnets bound together. I 
didn’t know how the blade had been made, but I sensed a tragedy. Someone had 
died in the process. Luke whistled to one of his men, who threw him a round 
leather-and-bronze shield. 

He grinned at me wickedly. 

“Luke,” Annabeth said, “at least give him a shield.” 

“Sorry, Annabeth,” he said. “You bring your own equipment to this party.” 

The shield was a problem. Fighting two-handed with just a sword gives you 
more power, but fighting one-handed with a shield gives you better defense and 
versatility. There are more moves, more options, more ways to kill. I thought 
back to Chiron, who’d told me to stay at camp no matter what, and learn to fight. 
Now I was going to pay for not listening to him. 

Luke lunged and almost killed me on the first try. His sword went under my 


arm, slashing through my shirt and grazing my ribs. 

I jumped back, then counterattacked with Riptide, but Luke slammed my 
blade away with his shield. 

“My, Percy,” Luke chided. “You’re out of practice.” 

He came at me again with a swipe to the head. I parried, returned with a 
thrust. He sidestepped easily. 

The cut on my ribs stung. My heart was racing. When Luke lunged again, I 
jumped backward into the swimming pool and felt a surge of strength. I spun 
underwater, creating a funnel cloud, and blasted out of the deep end, straight at 
Luke’s face. 

The force of the water knocked him down, spluttering and blinded. But 
before I could strike, he rolled aside and was on his feet again. 

I attacked and sliced off the edge of his shield, but that didn’t even faze 
him. He dropped to a crouch and jabbed at my legs. Suddenly my thigh was on 
fire, with a pain so intense I collapsed. My jeans were ripped above the knee. I 
was hurt. I didn’t know how badly. Luke hacked downward and I rolled behind a 
deck chair. I tried to stand, but my leg wouldn’t take the weight. 

“Perrrrrcy!” Grover bleated. 

I rolled again as Luke’s sword slashed the deck chair in half, metal pipes 
and all. 

I clawed toward the swimming pool, trying hard not to black out. I’d never 
make it. Luke knew it, too. He advanced slowly, smiling. The edge of his sword 
was tinged with red. 

“One thing I want you to watch before you die, Percy.” He looked at the 
bear-man Oreius, who was still holding Annabeth and Grover by the necks. “You 
can eat your dinner now, Oreius. Bon appetit.” 

“He-he! He-he!” The bear-man lifted my friends and bared his teeth. 

That’s when all Hades broke loose. 

Whish! 

A red-feathered arrow sprouted from Oreius’s mouth. With a surprised look 
on his hairy face, he crumpled to the deck. 

“Brother!” Agrius wailed. He let the pegasus’s reins go slack just long 
enough for the black steed to kick him in the head and fly away free over Miami 
Bay. 

For a split second, Luke’s guards were too stunned to do anything except 
watch the bear twins’ bodies dissolve into smoke. 

Then there was a wild chorus of war cries and hooves thundering against 
metal. A dozen centaurs charged out of the main stairwell. 

“Ponies!” Tyson cried with delight. 


My mind had trouble processing everything I saw. Chiron was among the 
crowd, but his relatives were almost nothing like him. There were centaurs with 
black Arabian stallion bodies, others with gold palomino coats, others with 
orange-and-white spots like paint horses. Some wore brightly colored T-shirts 
with Day-Glo letters that said PARTY PONIES: SOUTH FLORIDA CHAPTER. 
Some were armed with bows, some with baseball bats, some with paintball guns. 
One had his face painted like a Comanche warrior and was waving a large 
orange Styrofoam hand making a big Number I. Another was bare-chested and 
painted entirely green. A third had googly-eye glasses with the eyeballs 
bouncing around on Slinky coils, and one of those baseball caps with soda-can- 
and-straw attachments on either side. 

They exploded onto the deck with such ferocity and color that for a moment 
even Luke was stunned. I couldn’t tell whether they had come to celebrate or 
attack. 

Apparently both. As Luke was raising his sword to rally his troops, a 
centaur shot a custom-made arrow with a leather boxing glove on the end. It 
smacked Luke in the face and sent him crashing into the swimming pool. 

His warriors scattered. I couldn’t blame them. Facing the hooves of a 
rearing stallion is scary enough, but when it’s a centaur, armed with a bow and 
whooping it up in a soda-drinking hat, even the bravest warrior would retreat. 

“Come get some!” yelled one of the party ponies. 

They let loose with their paintball guns. A wave of blue and yellow 
exploded against Luke’s warriors, blinding them and splattering them from head 
to toe. They tried to run, only to slip and fall. 

Chiron galloped toward Annabeth and Grover, neatly plucked them off the 
deck, and deposited them on his back. 

I tried to get up, but my wounded leg still felt like it was on fire. 

Luke was crawling out of the pool. 

“Attack, you fools.’” he ordered his troops. Somewhere down below deck, 
a large alarm bell thrummed. 

I knew any second we would be swamped by Luke’s reinforcements. 
Already, his warriors were getting over their surprise, coming at the centaurs 
with swords and spears drawn. 

Tyson slapped half a dozen of them aside, knocking them over the guardrail 
into Miami Bay. But more warriors were coming up the stairs. 

“Withdraw, brethren!” Chiron said. 

“You won’t get away with this, horse man!” Luke shouted. He raised his 
sword, but got smacked in the face with another boxing glove arrow, and sat 
down hard in a deck chair. 


A palomino centaur hoisted me onto his back. “Dude, get your big friend!” 

“Tyson!” I yelled. “Come on!” 

Tyson dropped the two warriors he was about to tie into a knot and jogged 
after us. He jumped on the centaur’s back. 

“Dude!” the centaur groaned, almost buckling under Tyson’s weight. “Do 
the words ‘low-carb diet’ mean anything to you?” 

Luke’s warriors were organizing themselves into a phalanx. But by the time 
they were ready to advance, the centaurs had galloped to the edge of the deck 
and fearlessly jumped the guardrail, as if it were a steeplechase and not ten 
stories above the ground. I was sure we were going to die. We plummeted 
toward the docks, but the centaurs hit the asphalt with hardly a jolt and galloped 
off, whooping and yelling taunts at the Princess Andromeda as we raced into the 
streets of downtown Miami. 

I have no idea what the Miamians thought as we galloped by. 

Streets and buildings began to blur as the centaurs picked up speed. It felt 
as if space were compacting-as if each centaur step took us miles and miles. In 
no time, we’d left the city behind. We raced through marshy fields of high grass 
and ponds and stunted trees. 

Finally, we found ourselves in a trailer park at the edge of a lake. The 
trailers were all horse trailers, tricked out with televisions and mini-refrigerators 
and mosquito netting. We were in a centaur camp. 

“Dude!” said a party pony as he unloaded his gear. “Did you see that bear 
guy? He was all like: ‘Whoa, I have an arrow in my mouth!’” 

The centaur with the googly-eye glasses laughed. “That was awesome! 
Head slam!” 

The two centaurs charged at each other full-force and knocked heads, then 
went staggering off in different directions with crazy grins on their faces. 

Chiron sighed. He set Annabeth and Grover down on a picnic blanket next 
to me. “I really wish my cousins wouldn’t slam their heads together. They don’t 
have the brain cells to spare.” 

“Chiron,” I said, still stunned by the fact that he was here. “You saved us.” 

He gave me a dry smile. “Well now, I couldn’t very well let you die, 
especially since you’ve cleared my name.” 

“But how did you know where we were?” Annabeth asked. 

“Advanced planning, my dear. I figured you would wash up near Miami if 
you made it out of the Sea of Monsters alive. Almost everything strange washes 
up near Miami.” 

“Gee, thanks,” Grover mumbled. 

“No, no,” Chiron said. “I didn’t mean ... Oh, never mind. I am glad to see 


you, my young satyr. The point is, I was able to eavesdrop on Percy’s Iris- 
message and trace the signal. Iris and I have been friends for centuries. I asked 
her to alert me to any important communications in this area. It then took no 
effort to convince my cousins to ride to your aid. As you see, centaurs can travel 
quite fast when we wish to. Distance for us is not the same as distance for 
humans.” 

I looked over at the campfire, where three party ponies were teaching Tyson 
to operate a paintball gun. I hoped they knew what they were getting into. 

“So what now?” I asked Chiron. “We just let Luke sail away? He’s got 
Kronos aboard that ship. Or parts of him, anyway.” 

Chiron knelt, carefully folding his front legs underneath him. He opened the 
medicine pouch on his belt and started to treat my wounds. “I’m afraid, Percy, 
that today has been something of a draw. We didn’t have the strength of numbers 
to take that ship. Luke was not organized enough to pursue us. Nobody won.” 

“But we got the Fleece!” Annabeth said. “Clarisse is on her way back to 
camp with it right now.” 

Chiron nodded, though he still looked uneasy. “You are all true heroes. And 
as soon as we get Percy fixed up, you must return to Half-Blood Hill. The 
centaurs shall carry you.” 

“You’re coming, too?” I asked. 

“Oh yes, Percy. I’Il be relieved to get home. My brethren here simply do not 
appreciate Dean Martin’s music. Besides, I must have some words with Mr. D. 
There’s the rest of the summer to plan. So much training to do. And I want to see 
... ’m curious about the Fleece.” 

I didn’t know exactly what he meant, but it made me worried about what 
Luke had said: I was going to let you take the Fleece ... once I was done with it. 

Had he just been lying? I’d learned with Kronos there was usually a plan 
within a plan. The titan lord wasn’t called the Crooked One for nothing. He had 
ways of getting people to do what he wanted without them ever realizing his true 
intentions. 

Over by the campfire, Tyson let loose with his paintball gun. A blue 
projectile splattered against one of the centaurs, hurling him backward into the 
lake. The centaur came up grinning, covered in swamp muck and blue paint, and 
gave Tyson two thumbs up. 

“Annabeth,” Chiron said, “perhaps you and Grover would go supervise 
Tyson and my cousins before they, ah, teach each other too many bad habits?” 

Annabeth met his eyes. Some kind of understanding passed between them. 

“Sure, Chiron,” Annabeth said. “Come on, goat boy.” 

“But I don’t like paintball.” 


“Yes, you do.” She hoisted Grover to his hooves and led him off toward the 
campfire. 

Chiron finished bandaging my leg. “Percy, I had a talk with Annabeth on 
the way here. A talk about the prophecy.” 

Uh-oh, I thought. 

“Tt wasn’t her fault,” I said. “I made her tell me.” 

His eyes flickered with irritation. I was sure he was going to chew me out, 
but then his look turned to weariness. “I suppose I could not expect to keep it 
secret forever.” 

“So am I the one in the prophecy?” 

Chiron tucked his bandages back into his pouch. “I wish I knew, Percy. 
You’re not yet sixteen. For now we must simply train you as best we can, and 
leave the future to the Fates.” 

The Fates. I hadn’t thought about those old ladies in a long time, but as 
soon as Chiron mentioned them, something clicked. 

“That’s what it meant,” I said. 

Chiron frowned. “That’s what what meant?” 

“Last summer. The omen from the Fates, when I saw them snip somebody’s 
life string. I thought it meant I was going to die right away, but it’s worse than 
that. It’s got something to do with your prophecy. The death they foretold-it’s 
going to happen when I’m sixteen.” 

Chiron’s tail whisked nervously in the grass. “My boy, you can’t be sure of 
that. We don’t even know if the prophecy is about you.” 

“But there isn’t any other half-blood child of the Big Three!” 

“That we know of.” 

“And Kronos is rising. He’s going to destroy Mount Olympus!” 

“He will try,’ Chiron agreed. “And Western Civilization along with it, if we 
don’t stop him. But we will stop him. You will not be alone in that fight.” 

I knew he was trying to make me feel better, but I remembered what 
Annabeth had told me. It would come down to one hero. One decision that 
would save or destroy the West. And I felt sure the Fates had been giving me 
some kind of warning about that. Something terrible was going to happen, either 
to me or to somebody I was close to. 

“T’m just a kid, Chiron,” I said miserably. “What good is one lousy hero 
against something like Kronos?” 

Chiron managed a smile. ‘’What good is one lousy hero’? Joshua Lawrence 
Chamberlain said something like that to me once, just before he single-handedly 
changed the course of your Civil War.” 

He pulled an arrow from his quiver and turned the razor-sharp tip so it 


glinted in the firelight. “Celestial bronze, Percy. An immortal weapon. What 
would happen if you shot this at a human?” 

“Nothing,” I said. “It would pass right through.” 

“That’s right,” he said. “Humans don’t exist on the same level as the 
immortals. They can’t even be hurt by our weapons. But you, Percy-you are part 
god, part human. You live in both worlds. You can be harmed by both, and you 
can affect both. That’s what makes heroes so special. You carry the hopes of 
humanity into the realm of the eternal. Monsters never die. They are reborn from 
the chaos and barbarism that is always bubbling underneath civilization, the very 
stuff that makes Kronos stronger. They must be defeated again and again, kept at 
bay. Heroes embody that struggle. You fight the battles humanity must win, 
every generation, in order to stay human. Do you understand?” 

“T ... I don’t know.” 

“You must try, Percy. Because whether or not you are the child of the 
prophecy, Kronos thinks you might be. And after today, he will finally despair of 
turning you to his side. That is the only reason he hasn’t killed you yet, you 
know. As soon as he’s sure he can’t use you, he will destroy you.” 

“You talk like you know him.” 

Chiron pursed his lips. “I do know him.” 

I stared at him. I sometimes forgot just how old Chiron was. “Is that why 
Mr. D blamed you when the tree was poisoned? Why you said some people don’t 
trust you?” 

“Indeed.” 

“But, Chiron ... I mean, come on! Why would they think you’d ever betray 
the camp for Kronos?” 

Chiron’s eyes were deep brown, full of thousands of years of sadness. 
“Percy, remember your training. Remember your study of mythology. What is 
my connection to the titan lord?” 

I tried to think, but I’d always gotten my mythology mixed up. Even now, 
when it was so real, so important to my own life, I had trouble keeping all the 
names and facts straight. I shook my head. “You, uh, owe Kronos a favor or 
something? He spared your life?” 

“Percy,” Chiron said, his voice impossibly soft. “The titan Kronos is my 
father.” 


NINETEEN 


THE CHARIOT RACE 


ENDS WITH A BANG 


We arrived in Long Island just after Clarisse, thanks to the centaurs’ travel 
powers. I rode on Chiron’s back, but we didn’t talk much, especially not about 
Kronos. I knew it had been difficult for Chiron to tell me. I didn’t want to push 
him with more questions. I mean, I’ve met plenty of embarrassing parents, but 
Kronos, the evil titan lord who wanted to destroy Western Civilization? Not the 
kind of dad you invited to school for career day. 

When we got to camp, the centaurs were anxious to meet Dionysus. They’d 
heard he threw some really wild parties, but they were disappointed. The wine 
god was in no mood to celebrate as the whole camp gathered at the top of Half- 
Blood Hill. 

The camp had been through a hard two weeks. The arts and crafts cabin had 
bumed to the ground from an attack by a Draco Aionius (which as near as I 
could figure was Latin for “really-big-lizard-with-breath-that-blows-stuff-up”). 
The Big House’s rooms were overflowing with wounded. The kids in the Apollo 
cabin, who were the best healers, had been working overtime performing first 
aid. Everybody looked weary and battered as we crowded around Thalia’s tree. 

The moment Clarisse draped the Golden Fleece over the lowest bough, the 
moonlight seemed to brighten, turning from gray to liquid silver. A cool breeze 
rustled in the branches and rippled through the grass, all the way into the valley. 
Everything came into sharper focus-the glow of the fireflies down in the woods, 
the smell of the strawberry fields, the sound of the waves on the beach. 

Gradually, the needles on the pine tree started turning from brown to green. 

Everybody cheered. It was happening slowly, but there could be no doubt- 
the Fleece’s magic was seeping into the tree, filling it with new power and 
expelling the poison. 

Chiron ordered a twenty-four/seven guard duty on the hilltop, at least until 
he could find an appropriate monster to protect the Fleece. He said he’d place an 
ad in Olympus Weekly right away. 

In the meantime, Clarisse was carried on her cabin mates’ shoulders down 
to the amphitheater, where she was honored with a laurel wreath and a lot of 
celebrating around the campfire. 

Nobody gave Annabeth or me a second look. It was as if we’d never left. In 
a way, I guess that was the best thank-you anyone could give us, because if they 
admitted we’d snuck out of camp to do the quest, they’d have to expel us. And 
really, I didn’t want any more attention. It felt good to be just one of the campers 


for once. 

Later that night, as we were roasting s’mores and listening to the Stoll 
brothers tell us a ghost story about an evil king who was eaten alive by demonic 
breakfast pastries, Clarisse shoved me from behind and whispered in my ear, 
“Just because you were cool one time, Jackson, don’t think you’re off the hook 
with Ares. I’m still waiting for the right opportunity to pulverize you.” 

I gave her a grudging smile. 

“What?” she demanded. 

“Nothing,” I said. “Just good to be home.” 

The next morning, after the party ponies headed back to Florida, Chiron 
made a surprise announcement: the chariot races would go ahead as scheduled. 
We’d all figured they were history now that Tantalus was gone, but completing 
them did feel like the right thing to do, especially now that Chiron was back and 
the camp was safe. 

Tyson wasn’t too keen on the idea of getting back in a chariot after our first 
experience, but he was happy to let me team up with Annabeth. I would drive, 
Annabeth would defend, and Tyson would act as our pit crew. While I worked 
with the horses, Tyson fixed up Athena’s chariot and added a whole bunch of 
special modifications. 

We spent the next two days training like crazy. Annabeth and I agreed that 
if we won, the prize of no chores for the rest of the month would be split 
between our two cabins. Since Athena had more campers, they would get most 
of the time off, which was fine by me. I didn’t care about the prize. I just wanted 
to win. 

The night before the race, I stayed late at the stables. I was talking to our 
horses, giving them one final brushing, when somebody right behind me said, 
“Fine animals, horses. Wish I’d thought of them.” 

A middle-aged guy in a postal carrier outfit was leaning against the stable 
door. He was slim, with curly black hair under his white pith helmet, and he had 
a mailbag slung over his shoulder. 

“Hermes?” I stammered. 

“Hello, Percy. Didn’t recognize me without my jogging clothes?” 

“Uh ...” I wasn’t sure whether I was supposed to kneel or buy stamps from 
him or what. Then it occurred to me why he must be here. “Oh, listen, Lord 
Hermes, about Luke ...” 

The god arched his eyebrows. 

“Uh, we saw him, all right,” I said, “but-“ 

“You weren’t able to talk sense into him?” 

“Well, we kind of tried to kill each other in a duel to the death.” 


“T see. You tried the diplomatic approach.” 

“T’m really sorry. I mean, you gave us those awesome gifts and everything. 
And I know you wanted Luke to come back. But ... he’s turned bad. Really bad. 
He said he feels like you abandoned him.” 

I waited for Hermes to get angry. I figured he’d turn me into a hamster or 
something, and I did not want to spend any more time as a rodent. 

Instead, he just sighed. “Do you ever feel your father abandoned you, 
Percy?” 

Oh, man. 

I wanted to say, “Only a few hundred times a day.” I hadn’t spoken to 
Poseidon since last summer. I’d never been to his underwater palace. And then 
there was the whole thing with Tyson-no warning, no explanation. Just boom, 
you have a brother. You’d think that deserved a little heads-up phone call or 
something. 

The more I thought about it, the angrier I got. I realized I did want 
recognition for the quest I’d completed, but not from the other campers. I wanted 
my dad to say something. To notice me. 

Hermes readjusted the mailbag on his shoulder. “Percy, the hardest part 
about being a god is that you must often act indirectly, especially when it comes 
to your own children. If we were to intervene every time our children had a 
problem ... well, that would only create more problems and more resentment. 
But I believe if you give it some thought, you will see that Poseidon has been 
paying attention to you. He has answered your prayers. I can only hope that 
some day, Luke may realize the same about me. Whether you feel like you 
succeeded or not, you reminded Luke who he was. You spoke to him.” 

“T tried to kill him.” 

Hermes shrugged. “Families are messy. Immortal families are eternally 
messy. Sometimes the best we can do is to remind each other that we’re related, 
for better or worse ... and try to keep the maiming and killing to a minimum.” 

It didn’t sound like much of a recipe for the perfect family. Then again, as I 
thought about my quest, I realized maybe Hermes was right. Poseidon had sent 
the hippocampi to help us. He’d given me powers over the sea that I’d never 
known about before. And there was Tyson. Had Poseidon brought us together on 
purpose? How many times had Tyson saved my life this summer? 

In the distance, the conch horn sounded, signaling curfew. 

“You should get to bed,” Hermes said. “I’ve helped you get into quite 
enough trouble this summer already. I really only came to make this delivery.” 

“A delivery?” 

“T am the messenger of the gods, Percy.” He took an electronic signature 


pad from his mailbag and handed it to me. “Sign there, please.” 

I picked up the stylus before realizing it was entwined with a pair of tiny 
green snakes. “Ah!” I dropped the pad. 

Ouch, said George. 

Really, Percy, Martha scolded. Would you want to be dropped on the floor 
of a horse stable? 

“Oh, uh, sorry.” I didn’t much like touching snakes, but I picked up the pad 
and the stylus again. Martha and George wriggled under my fingers, forming a 
kind of pencil grip like the ones my special ed teacher made me use in second 
grade. 

Did you bring me a rat? George asked. 

“No ...” I said. “Uh, we didn’t find any.” 

What about a guinea pig? 

George! Martha chided. Don’t tease the boy. 

I signed my name and gave the pad back to Hermes. 

In exchange, he handed me a sea-blue envelope. 

My fingers trembled. Even before I opened it, I could tell it was from my 
father. I could sense his power in the cool blue paper, as if the envelope itself had 
been folded out of an ocean wave. 

“Good luck tomorrow,” Hermes said. “Fine team of horses you have there, 
though you’ll excuse me if I root for the Hermes cabin.” 

And don’t be too discouraged when you read it, dear, Martha told me. He 
does have your interests at heart. 

“What do you mean?” I asked. 

Don’t mind her, George said. And next time, remember, snakes work for 
tips. 

“Enough, you two,” Hermes said. “Good-bye, Percy. For now.” 

Small white wings sprouted from his pith helmet. He began to glow, and I 
knew enough about the gods to avert my eyes before he revealed his true divine 
form. With a brilliant white flash he was gone, and I was alone with the horses. 

I stared at the blue envelope in my hands. It was addressed in strong but 
elegant handwriting that I’d seen once before, on a package Poseidon had sent 
me last summer. 

Percy Jackson 

c/o Camp Half-Blood 

Farm Road 3.141 

Long Island, New York 11954 

An actual letter from my father. Maybe he would tell me I’d done a good 
job getting the Fleece. He’d explain about Tyson, or apologize for not talking to 


me sooner. There were so many things that I wanted that letter to say. 

I opened the envelope and unfolded the paper. 

Two simple words were printed in the middle of the page: 

Brace Yourself 

The next morning, everybody was buzzing about the chariot race, though 
they kept glancing nervously toward the sky like they expected to see 
Stymphalian birds gathering. None did. It was a beautiful summer day with blue 
sky and plenty of sunshine. The camp had started to look the way it should look: 
the meadows were green and lush; the white columns gleamed on the Greek 
buildings; dryads played happily in the woods. 

And I was miserable. I’d been lying awake all night, thinking about 
Poseidon’s warning. 

Brace yourself. 

I mean, he goes to the trouble of writing a letter, and he writes two words? 

Martha the snake had told me not to feel disappointed. Maybe Poseidon had 
a reason for being so vague. Maybe he didn’t know exactly what he was warning 
me about, but he sensed something big was about to happen-something that 
could completely knock me off my feet unless I was prepared. It was hard, but I 
tried to turn my thoughts to the race. 

As Annabeth and I drove onto the track, I couldn’t help admiring the work 
Tyson had done on the Athena chariot. The carriage gleamed with bronze 
reinforcements. The wheels were realigned with magical suspension so we 
glided along with hardly a bump. The rigging for the horses was so perfectly 
balanced that the team turned at the slightest tug of the reins. 

Tyson had also made us two javelins, each with three buttons on the shaft. 
The first button primed the javelin to explode on impact, releasing razor wire 
that would tangle and shred an opponent’s wheels. The second button produced a 
blunt (but still very painful) bronze spearhead designed to knock a driver out of 
his carriage. The third button brought up a grappling hook that could be used to 
lock onto an enemy’s chariot or push it away. 

I figured we were in pretty good shape for the race, but Tyson still warned 
me to be careful. The other chariot teams had plenty of tricks up their togas. 

“Here,” he said, just before the race began. 

He handed me a wristwatch. There wasn’t anything special about it-just a 
white-and-silver clock face, a black leather strap-but as soon as I saw it I 
realized that this is what I’d seen him tinkering on all summer. 

I didn’t usually like to wear watches. Who cared what time it was? But I 
couldn’t say no to Tyson. 

“Thanks, man.” I put it on and found it was surprisingly light and 


comfortable. I could hardly tell I was wearing it. 

“Didn’t finish in time for the trip,” Tyson mumbled. “Sorry, sorry.” 

“Hey, man. No big deal.” 

“Tf you need protection in race,” he advised, “hit the button.” 

“Ah, okay.” I didn’t see how keeping time was going to help a whole lot, 
but I was touched that Tyson was concerned. I promised him I’d remember the 
watch. “And, hey, um, Tyson ...” 

He looked at me. 

“T wanted to say, well ...” I tried to figure out how to apologize for getting 
embarrassed about him before the quest, for telling everyone he wasn’t my real 
brother. It wasn’t easy to find the words. 

“T know what you will tell me,” Tyson said, looking ashamed. “Poseidon 
did care for me after all.” 

“Uh, well-“ 

“He sent you to help me. Just what I asked for.” 

I blinked. “You asked Poseidon for ... me?” 

“For a friend,” Tyson said, twisting his shirt in his hands. “Young Cyclopes 
grow up alone on the streets, learn to make things out of scraps. Learn to 
survive.” 

“But that’s so cruel!” 

He shook his head earnestly. “Makes us appreciate blessings, not be greedy 
and mean and fat like Polyphemus. But I got scared. Monsters chased me so 
much, clawed me sometimes-“ 

“The scars on your back?” 

A tear welled in his eye. “Sphinx on Seventy-second Street. Big bully. I 
prayed to Daddy for help. Soon the people at Meriwether found me. Met you. 
Biggest blessing ever. Sorry I said Poseidon was mean. He sent me a brother.” 

I stared at the watch that Tyson had made me. 

“Percy!” Annabeth called. “Come on!” 

Chiron was at the starting line, ready to blow the conch. 

“Tyson ...” I said. 

“Go,” Tyson said. “You will win!” 

“T-yeah, okay, big guy. We’ll win this one for you.” I climbed on board the 
chariot and got into position just as Chiron blew the starting signal. 

The horses knew what to do. We shot down the track so fast I would’ve 
fallen out if my arms hadn’t been wrapped in the leather reins. Annabeth held on 
tight to the rail. The wheels glided beautifully. We took the first turn a full 
chariot-length ahead of Clarisse, who was busy trying to fight off a javelin attack 
from the Stoll brothers in the Hermes chariot. 


“We’ve got ‘em!” I yelled, but I spoke too soon. 

“Incoming!” Annabeth yelled. She threw her first javelin in grappling hook 
mode, knocking away a lead-weighted net that would have entangled us both. 
Apollo’s chariot had come up on our flank. Before Annabeth could rearm 
herself, the Apollo warrior threw a javelin into our right wheel. The javelin 
shattered, but not before snapping some of our spokes. Our chariot lurched and 
wobbled. I was sure the wheel would collapse altogether, but we somehow kept 
going. 

I urged the horses to keep up the speed. We were now neck and neck with 
Apollo. Hephaestus was coming up close behind. Ares and Hermes were falling 
behind, riding side by side as Clarisse went sword-on-javelin with Connor Stoll. 

If we took one more hit to our wheel, I knew we would capsize. 

“You’re mine!” the driver from Apollo yelled. He was a first-year camper. I 
didn’t remember his name, but he sure was confident. 

“Yeah, right!” Annabeth yelled back. 

She picked up her second javelin-a real risk considering we still had one 
full lap to go-and threw it at the Apollo driver. 

Her aim was perfect. The javelin grew a heavy spear point just as it caught 
the driver in the chest, knocking him against his teammate and sending them 
both toppling out of their chariot in a backward somersault. The horses felt the 
reins go slack and went crazy, riding straight for the crowd. Campers scrambled 
for cover as the horses leaped the corner of the bleachers and the golden chariot 
flipped over. The horses galloped back toward their stable, dragging the upside- 
down chariot behind them. 

I held our own chariot together through the second turn, despite the 
groaning of the right wheel. We passed the starting line and thundered into our 
final lap. 

The axle creaked and moaned. The wobbling wheel was making us lose 
speed, even though the horses were responding to my every command, running 
like a well-oiled machine. 

The Hephaestus team was still gaining. 

Beckendorf grinned as he pressed a button on his command console. Steel 
cables shot out of the front of his mechanical horses, wrapping around our back 
rail. Our chariot shuddered as Beckendorf’s winch system started working- 
pulling us backward while Beckendorf pulled himself forward. 

Annabeth cursed and drew her knife. She hacked at the cables but they were 
too thick. 

“Can’t cut them.’” she yelled. 

The Hephaestus chariot was now dangerously close, their horses about to 


999 


trample us underfoot. 

“Switch with me!” I told Annabeth. “Take the reins!” 

“But-“ 

“Trust me!” 

She pulled herself to the front and grabbed the reins. I turned, trying hard to 
keep my footing, and uncapped Riptide. 

I slashed down and the cables snapped like kite string. We lurched forward, 
but Beckendorf’s driver just swung his chariot to our left and pulled up next to 
us. Beckendorf drew his sword. He slashed at Annabeth, and I parried the blade 
away. 

We were coming up on the last turn. We’d never make it. I needed to 
disable the Hephaestus chariot and get it out of the way, but I had to protect 
Annabeth, too. Just because Beckendorf was a nice guy didn’t mean he wouldn’t 
send us both to the infirmary if we let our guard down. 

We were neck and neck now, Clarisse coming up from behind, making up 
for lost time. 

“See ya, Percy!” Beckendorf yelled. “Here’s a little parting gift!” 

He threw a leather pouch into our chariot. It stuck to the floor immediately 
and began billowing green smoke. 

“Greek fire!” Annabeth yelled. 

I cursed. I’d heard stories about what Greek fire could do. I figured we had 
maybe ten seconds before it exploded. 

“Get rid of it!” Annabeth shouted, but I couldn’t. Hephaestus’s chariot was 
still alongside, waiting until the last second to make sure their little present blew 
up. Beckendorf was keeping me busy with his sword. If I let my guard down 
long enough to deal with the Greek fire, Annabeth would get sliced and we’d 
crash anyway. I tried to kick the leather pouch away with my foot, but I couldn’t. 
It was stuck fast. 

Then I remembered the watch. 

I didn’t know how it could help, but I managed to punch the stopwatch 
button. Instantly, the watch changed. It expanded, the metal rim spiraling 
outward like an old-fashioned camera shutter, a leather strap wrapping around 
my forearm until I was holding a round war shield four feet wide, the inside soft 
leather, the outside polished bronze engraved with designs I didn’t have time to 
examine. 

All I knew: Tyson had come through. I raised the shield, and Beckendorf’s 
sword clanged against it. His blade shattered. 

“What?” he shouted. “How-“ 

He didn’t have time to say more because I knocked him in the chest with 


my new shield and sent him flying out of his chariot, tumbling in the dirt. 

I was about use Riptide to slash at the driver when Annabeth yelled, 
“Percy!” 

The Greek fire was shooting sparks. I shoved the tip of my sword under the 
leather pouch and flipped it up like a spatula. The firebomb dislodged and flew 
into the Hephaestus chariot at the driver’s feet. He yelped. 

In a split second the driver made the right choice: he dove out of the 
chariot, which careened away and exploded in green flames. The metal horses 
seemed to short-circuit. They turned and dragged the burning wreckage back 
toward Clarisse and the Stoll brothers, who had to swerve to avoid it. 

Annabeth pulled the reins for the last turn. I held on, sure we would 
capsize, but somehow she brought us through and spurred the horses across the 
finish line. The crowd roared. 

Once the chariot stopped, our friends mobbed us. They started chanting our 
names, but Annabeth yelled over the noise: “Hold up! Listen! It wasn’t just us!” 

The crowd didn’t want to be quiet, but Annabeth made herself heard: “We 
couldn’t have done it without somebody else! We couldn’t have won this race or 
gotten the Fleece or saved Grover or anything! We owe our lives to Tyson, 
Percy’s ...” 

“Brother!” I said, loud enough for everybody to hear. “Tyson, my baby 
brother.” 

Tyson blushed. The crowd cheered. Annabeth planted a kiss on my cheek. 
The roaring got a lot louder after that. The entire Athena cabin lifted me and 
Annabeth and Tyson onto their shoulders and carried us toward the winner’s 
platform, where Chiron was waiting to bestow the laurel wreaths. 


TWENTY 


THE FLEECE WORKS 


ITS MAGIC TOO WELL 


That afternoon was one of the happiest I’d ever spent at camp, which 
maybe goes to show, you never know when your world is about to be rocked to 
pieces. 

Grover announced that he’d be able to spend the rest of the summer with us 
before resuming his quest for Pan. His bosses at the Council of Cloven Elders 
were so impressed that he hadn’t gotten himself killed and had cleared the way 
for future searchers, that they granted him a two-month furlough and a new set 
of reed pipes. The only bad news: Grover insisted on playing those pipes all 
afternoon long, and his musical skills hadn’t improved much. He played 
“YMCA,” and the strawberry plants started going crazy, wrapping around our 
feet like they were trying to strangle us. I guess I couldn’t blame them. 

Grover told me he could dissolve the empathy link between us, now that we 
were face to face, but I told him I’d just as soon keep it if that was okay with 
him. He put down his reed pipes and stared at me. “But, if I get in trouble again, 
you’ ll be in danger, Percy! You could die!” 

“Tf you get in trouble again, I want to know about it. And I’ll come help you 
again, G-man. I wouldn’t have it any other way.” 

In the end he agreed not to break the link. He went back to playing 
“YMCA” for the strawberry plants. I didn’t need an empathy link with the plants 
to know how they felt about it. 

Later on during archery class, Chiron pulled me aside and told me he’d 
fixed my problems with Meriwether Prep. The school no longer blamed me for 
destroying their gymnasium. The police were no longer looking for me. 

“How did you manage that?” I asked. 

Chiron’s eyes twinkled. “I merely suggested that the mortals had seen 
something different on that day-a furnace explosion that was not your fault.” 

“You just said that and they bought it?” 

“T manipulated the Mist. Some day, when you’re ready, I’ll show how it’s 
done.” 

“You mean, I can go back to Meriwether next year?” 

Chiron raised his eyebrows. “Oh, no, they’ve still expelled you. Your 
headmaster, Mr. Bonsai, said you had-how did he put it?-un-groovy karma that 
disrupted the school’s educational aura. But you’re not in any legal trouble, 
which was a relief to your mother. Oh, and speaking of your mother ...” 

He unclipped his cell phone from his quiver and handed it to me. “It’s high 


time you called her.” 

The worst part was the beginning-the “Percy-Jackson-what-were-you- 
thinking-do-you-have-any-idea-how-worried-I-was-sneaking-off-to-camp- 
without-permission-going-on-dangerous-quests-and-scaring-me-half-to-death” 
part. 

But finally she paused to catch her breath. “Oh, I’m just glad you’re safe!” 

That’s the great thing about my mom. She’s no good at staying angry. She 
tries, but it just isn’t in her nature. 

“T’m sorry, Mom,” I told her. “I won’t scare you again.” 

“Don’t promise me that, Percy. You know very well it will only get worse.” 
She tried to sound casual about it, but I could tell she was pretty shaken up. 

I wanted to say something to make her feel better, but I knew she was right. 
Being a half-blood, I would always be doing things that scared her. And as I got 
older, the dangers would just get greater. 

“T could come home for a while,” I offered. 

“No, no. Stay at camp. Train. Do what you need to do. But you will come 
home for the next school year?” 

“Yeah, of course. Uh, if there’s any school that will take me.” 

“Oh, we’ll find something, dear,” my mother sighed. “Some place where 
they don’t know us yet.” 

As for Tyson, the campers treated him like a hero. I would’ve been happy to 
have him as my cabin mate forever, but that evening, as we were sitting on a 
sand dune overlooking the Long Island Sound, he made an announcement that 
completely took me by surprise. 

“Dream came from Daddy last night,” he said. “He wants me to visit.” 

I wondered if he was kidding, but Tyson really didn’t know how to kid. 
“Poseidon sent you a dream message?” 

Tyson nodded. “Wants me to go underwater for the rest of the summer. 
Learn to work at Cyclopes’ forges. He called it an inter-an intern-“ 

“An internship?” 

“Yes.” I let that sink in. P’ll admit, I felt a little jealous. Poseidon had never 
invited me underwater. But then I thought, Tyson was going? Just like that? 

“When would you leave?” I asked. 

“Now.” 

“Now. Like ... now now?” 

“Now.” 

I stared out at the waves in the Long Island Sound. The water was 
glistening red in the sunset. 

“T’m happy for you, big guy,” I managed. “Seriously.” 


“Hard to leave my new brother,” he said with a tremble in his voice. “But I 
want to make things. Weapons for the camp. You will need them.” 

Unfortunately, I knew he was right. The Fleece hadn’t solved all the camp’s 
problems. Luke was still out there, gathering an army aboard the Princess 
Andromeda. Kronos was still re-forming in his golden coffin. Eventually, we 
would have to fight them. 

“You'll make the best weapons ever,” I told Tyson. I held up my watch 
proudly. “I bet they’ II tell good time, too.” 

Tyson sniffled. “Brothers help each other.” 

“You’re my brother,” I said. “No doubt about it.” 

He patted me on the back so hard he almost knocked me down the sand 
dune. Then he wiped a tear from his cheek and stood to go. “Use the shield 
well.” 

“T will, big guy.” 

“Save your life some day.” 

The way he said it, so matter-of-fact, I wondered if that Cyclops eye of his 
could see into the future. 

He headed down to the beach and whistled. Rainbow, the hippocampus, 
burst out of the waves. I watched the two of them ride off together into the realm 
of Poseidon. 

Once they were gone, I looked down at my new wristwatch. I pressed the 
button and the shield spiraled out to full size. Hammered into the bronze were 
pictures in Ancient Greek style, scenes from our adventures this summer. There 
was Annabeth slaying a Laistrygonian dodgeball player, me fighting the bronze 
bulls on Half-Blood Hill, Tyson riding Rainbow toward the Princess 
Andromeda, the CSS Birmingham blasting its cannons at Charybdis. I ran my 
hand across a picture of Tyson, battling the Hydra as he held aloft a box of 
Monster Donuts. 

I couldn’t help feeling sad. I knew Tyson would have an awesome time 
under the ocean. But I’d miss everything about him-his fascination with horses, 
the way he could fix chariots or crumple metal with his bare hands, or tie bad 
guys into knots. I’d even miss him snoring like an earthquake in the next bunk 
all night. 

“Hey, Percy.” 

I turned. 

Annabeth and Grover were standing at the top of the sand dune. I guess 
maybe I had some sand in my eyes, because I was blinking a lot. 

“Tyson ...” I told them. “He had to ...” 

“We know,” Annabeth said softly. “Chiron told us.” 


“Cyclopes forges.” Grover shuddered. “I hear the cafeteria food there is 
terrible! Like, no enchiladas at all.” 

Annabeth held out her hand. “Come on, Seaweed Brain. Time for dinner.” 

We walked back toward the dining pavilion together, just the three of us, 
like old times. 

A storm raged that night, but it parted around Camp Half-Blood as storms 
usually did. Lightning flashed against the horizon, waves pounded the shore, but 
not a drop fell in our valley. We were protected again, thanks to the Fleece, 
sealed inside our magical borders. 

Still, my dreams were restless. I heard Kronos taunting me from the depths 
of Tartarus: Polyphemus sits blindly in his cave, young hero, believing he has 
won a great victory. Are you any less deluded? The titan’s cold laughter filled 
the darkness. 

Then my dream changed. I was following Tyson to the bottom of the sea, 
into the court of Poseidon. It was a radiant hall filled with blue light, the floor 
cobbled with pearls. And there, on a throne of coral, sat my father, dressed like a 
simple fisherman in khaki shorts and a sun-bleached T-shirt. I looked up into his 
tan weathered face, his deep green eyes, and he spoke two words: Brace 
yourself. 

I woke with a start. 

There was a banging on the door. Grover flew inside without waiting for 
permission. “Percy!” he stammered. “Annabeth ... on the hill ... she ...” 

The look in his eyes told me something was terribly wrong. Annabeth had 
been on guard duty that night, protecting the Fleece. If something had happened 

I ripped off the covers, my blood like ice water in my veins. I threw on 
some clothes while Grover tried to make a complete sentence, but he was too 
stunned, too out of breath. “She’s lying there ... just lying there ...” 

I ran outside and raced across the central yard, Grover right behind me. 
Dawn was just breaking, but the whole camp seemed to be stirring. Word was 
spreading. Something huge had happened. A few campers were already making 
their way toward the hill, satyrs and nymphs and heroes in a weird mix of armor 
and pajamas. 

I heard the clop of horse hooves, and Chiron galloped up behind us, looking 
grim. 

“Ts it true?” he asked Grover. 

Grover could only nod, his expression dazed. 

I tried to ask what was going on, but Chiron grabbed me by the arm and 
effortlessly lifted me onto his back. Together we thundered up Half-Blood Hill, 


where a small crowd had started to gather. 

I expected to see the Fleece missing from the pine tree, but it was still there, 
glittering in the first light of dawn. The storm had broken and the sky was 
bloodred. 

“Curse the titan lord,” Chiron said. “He’s tricked us again, given himself 
another chance to control the prophecy.” 

“What do you mean?” I asked. 

“The Fleece,” he said. “The Fleece did its work too well.” 

We galloped forward, everyone moving out of our way. There at the base of 
the tree, a girl was lying unconscious. Another girl in Greek armor was kneeling 
next to her. 

Blood roared in my ears. I couldn’t think straight. Annabeth had been 
attacked? But why was the Fleece still there? 

The tree itself looked perfectly fine, whole and healthy, suffused with the 
essence of the Golden Fleece. 

“Tt healed the tree,” Chiron said, his voice ragged. “And poison was not the 
only thing it purged.” 

Then I realized Annabeth wasn’t the one lying on the ground. She was the 
one in armor, kneeling next to the unconscious girl. When Annabeth saw us, she 
ran to Chiron. “It... she ... just suddenly there ...” 

Her eyes were streaming with tears, but I still didn’t understand. I was too 
freaked out to make sense of it all. I leaped off Chiron’s back and ran toward the 
unconscious girl. Chiron said: “Percy, wait!” 

I knelt by her side. She had short black hair and freckles across her nose. 
She was built like a long-distance runner, lithe and strong, and she wore clothes 
that were somewhere between punk and Goth-a black T-shirt, black tattered 
jeans, and a leather jacket with buttons from a bunch of bands I’d never heard of. 

She wasn’t a camper. I didn’t recognize her from any of the cabins. And yet 
I had the strangest feeling I’d seen her before.... 

“Tt’s true,” Grover said, panting from his run up the hill. “I can’t believe ...” 

Nobody else came close to the girl. 

I put my hand on her forehead. Her skin was cold, but my fingertips tingled 
as if they were burning. 

“She needs nectar and ambrosia,” I said. She was clearly a half-blood, 
whether she was a camper or not. I could sense that just from one touch. I didn’t 
understand why everyone was acting so scared. 

I took her by the shoulders and lifted her into sitting position, resting her 
head on my shoulder. 

“Come on!” I yelled to the others. “What’s wrong with you people? Let’s 


get her to the Big House.” 

No one moved, not even Chiron. They were all too stunned. 

Then the girl took a shaky breath. She coughed and opened her eyes. 

Her irises were startlingly blue-electric blue. 

The girl stared at me in bewilderment, shivering and wild-eyed. “Who-“ 

“T’m Percy,” I said. “You’re safe now.” 

“Strangest dream ...” 

“Tt’s okay.” 

“Dying.” 

“No,” I assured her. “You’re okay. What’s your name?” 

That’s when I knew. Even before she said it. 

The girl’s blue eyes stared into mine, and I understood what the Golden 
Fleece quest had been about. The poisoning of the tree. Everything. Kronos had 
done it to bring another chess piece into play-another chance to control the 
prophecy. 

Even Chiron, Annabeth, and Grover, who should’ve been celebrating this 
moment, were too shocked, thinking about what it might mean for the future. 
And I was holding someone who was destined to be my best friend, or possibly 
my worst enemy. 

“T am Thalia,” the girl said. “Daughter of Zeus.” 


Table of Contents 


Percy Jackson 2 
The Sea Monsters 
by 

Rick Riordan 
ONE 


