EVEN BEFORE HE GOT ELECTROCUTED, Jason was having a rotten day.

He  woke  in  the  backseat  of  a  school  bus,  not  sure  where  he  was,
holding  hands  with  a  girl  he  didn’t  know.  That  wasn’t  necessarily  the
rotten  part.  The  girl  was  cute,  but  he  couldn’t  figure  out  who  she  was  or
what he was doing there. He sat up and rubbed his eyes, trying to think.

A  few  dozen  kids  sprawled  in  the  seats  in  front  of  him,  listening  to
iPods,  talking,  or  sleeping.  They  all  looked  around  his  age  …  fifteen?
Sixteen? Okay, that was scary. He didn’t know his own age.

The bus rumbled along a bumpy road. Out the windows, desert rolled
by  under  a  bright  blue  sky.  Jason  was  pretty  sure  he  didn’t  live  in  the
desert. He tried to think back … the last thing he remembered …

The girl squeezed his hand. “Jason, you okay?”
She wore faded jeans, hiking boots, and a fleece snowboarding jacket.
Her  chocolate  brown  hair  was  cut  choppy  and  uneven,  with  thin  strands
braided  down  the  sides.  She  wore  no  makeup  like  she  was  trying  not  to
draw attention to herself, but it didn’t work. She was seriously pretty. Her
eyes seemed to change color like a kaleidoscope—brown, blue, and green.

Jason let go of her hand. “Um, I don’t—”
In  the  front  of  the  bus,  a  teacher  shouted,  “All  right,  cupcakes,  listen

up!”

The guy was obviously a coach. His baseball cap was pulled low over
his hair, so you could just see his beady eyes. He had a wispy goatee and a
sour  face,  like  he’d  eaten  something  moldy.  His  buff  arms  and  chest
pushed  against  a  bright  orange  polo  shirt.  His  nylon  workout  pants  and
Nikes  were  spotless  white.  A  whistle  hung  from  his  neck,  and  a

megaphone was clipped to his belt. He would’ve looked pretty scary if he
hadn’t  been  five  feet  zero.  When  he  stood  up  in  the  aisle,  one  of  the
students called, “Stand up, Coach Hedge!”

“I  heard  that!”  The  coach  scanned  the  bus  for  the  offender.  Then  his

eyes fixed on Jason, and his scowl deepened.

A jolt went down Jason’s spine. He was sure the coach knew he didn’t
belong there. He was going to call Jason out, demand to know what he was
doing on the bus—and Jason wouldn’t have a clue what to say.

But Coach Hedge looked away and cleared his throat. “We’ll arrive in
five  minutes!  Stay  with  your  partner.  Don’t  lose  your  worksheet.  And  if
any  of  you  precious  little  cupcakes  causes  any  trouble  on  this  trip,  I  will
personally send you back to campus the hard way.”

He picked up a baseball bat and made like he was hitting a homer.
Jason looked at the girl next to him. “Can he talk to us that way?”
She  shrugged.  “Always  does.  This  is  the  Wilderness  School.  ‘Where

kids are the animals.’”

She said it like it was a joke they’d shared before.
“This  is  some  kind  of  mistake,”  Jason  said.  “I’m  not  supposed  to  be

here.”

The boy in front of him turned and laughed. “Yeah, right, Jason. We’ve

all been framed! I didn’t run away six times. Piper didn’t steal a BMW.”

The girl blushed. “I didn’t steal that car, Leo!”
“Oh, I forgot, Piper. What was your story? You ‘talked’ the dealer into
lending it to you?” He raised his eyebrows at Jason like, Can  you believe
her?

Leo looked like a Latino Santa’s elf, with curly black hair, pointy ears,
a cheerful, babyish face, and a mischievous smile that told you right away
this guy should not be trusted around matches or sharp objects. His long,
nimble  fingers  wouldn’t  stop  moving—drumming  on  the  seat,  sweeping
his  hair  behind  his  ears,  fiddling  with  the  buttons  of  his  army  fatigue
jacket. Either the kid was naturally hyper or he was hopped up on enough
sugar and caffeine to give a heart attack to a water buffalo.

“Anyway,” Leo said, “I hope you’ve got your worksheet, ’cause I used
mine  for  spit  wads  days  ago.  Why  are  you  looking  at  me  like  that?
Somebody draw on my face again?”

“I don’t know you,” Jason said.
Leo gave him a crocodile grin. “Sure. I’m not your best friend. I’m his

evil clone.”

“Leo  Valdez!”  Coach  Hedge  yelled  from  the  front.  “Problem  back

there?”

Leo  winked  at  Jason.  “Watch  this.”  He  turned  to  the  front.  “Sorry,
Coach! I was having trouble hearing you. Could you use your megaphone,
please?”

Coach  Hedge  grunted  like  he  was  pleased  to  have  an  excuse.  He
unclipped  the  megaphone  from  his  belt  and  continued  giving  directions,
but his voice came out like Darth Vader’s. The kids cracked up. The coach
tried again, but this time the megaphone blared: “The cow says moo!”

The  kids  howled,  and  the  coach  slammed  down  the  megaphone.

“Valdez!”

Piper stifled a laugh. “My god, Leo. How did you do that?”
Leo  slipped  a  tiny  Phillips  head  screwdriver  from  his  sleeve.  “I’m  a

special boy.”

“Guys,  seriously,” Jason pleaded.  “What  am  I  doing  here?  Where  are

we going?”

Piper knit her eyebrows. “Jason, are you joking?”
“No! I have no idea—”
“Aw, yeah, he’s joking,” Leo said. “He’s trying to get me back for that

shaving cream on the Jell-O thing, aren’t you?”

Jason stared at him blankly.
“No,  I  think  he’s  serious.”  Piper  tried  to  take  his  hand  again,  but  he

pulled it away.

“I’m sorry,” he said. “I don’t—I can’t—”
“That’s it!” Coach Hedge yelled from the front. “The back row has just

volunteered to clean up after lunch!”
The rest of the kids cheered.
“There’s a shocker,” Leo muttered.
But Piper kept her eyes on Jason, like she couldn’t decide whether to
be hurt or worried. “Did you hit your head or something? You really don’t
know who we are?”

Jason  shrugged  helplessly.  “It’s  worse  than  that.  I  don’t  know  who  I

am.”

The bus dropped them in front of a big red stucco complex like a museum,
just  sitting  in  the  middle  of  nowhere.  Maybe  that’s  what  it  was:  the
National Museum of Nowhere, Jason thought. A cold wind blew across the
desert.  Jason  hadn’t  paid  much  attention  to  what  he  was  wearing,  but  it
wasn’t nearly warm enough: jeans and sneakers, a purple T-shirt, and a thin
black windbreaker.

“So, a crash course for the amnesiac,” Leo said, in a helpful tone that
made  Jason  think  this  was  not  going  to  be  helpful.  “We  go  to  the
‘Wilderness  School’”—Leo  made  air  quotes  with  his  fingers.  “Which
means we’re ‘bad kids.’ Your family, or the court, or whoever, decided you
were  too  much  trouble,  so  they  shipped  you  off  to  this  lovely  prison—
sorry,  ‘boarding  school’—in  Armpit,  Nevada,  where  you  learn  valuable
nature  skills  like  running  ten  miles  a  day  through  the  cacti  and  weaving
daisies into hats! And for a special treat we go on ‘educational’ field trips
with  Coach  Hedge,  who  keeps  order  with  a  baseball  bat.  Is  it  all  coming
back to you now?”

“No.”  Jason  glanced  apprehensively  at  the  other  kids:  maybe  twenty
guys, half  that many  girls.  None  of them looked  like hardened  criminals,
but  he  wondered  what  they’d  all  done  to  get  sentenced  to  a  school  for
delinquents, and he wondered why he belonged with them.

Leo rolled his eyes. “You’re really gonna play this out, huh? Okay, so
the three of us started here together this semester. We’re totally tight. You
do everything I say and give me your dessert and do my chores—”

“Leo!” Piper snapped.
“Fine.  Ignore  that  last  part.  But  we  are friends.  Well,  Piper’s  a  little

more than your friend, the last few weeks—”

“Leo,  stop  it!”  Piper’s  face  turned  red.  Jason  could  feel  his  face
burning too. He thought he’d remember if he’d been going out with a girl
like Piper.

“He’s  got  amnesia  or  something,”  Piper  said.  “We’ve  got  to  tell

somebody.”

Leo scoffed. “Who, Coach Hedge? He’d try to fix Jason by whacking

him upside the head.”

The coach was at the front of the group, barking orders and blowing his
whistle  to  keep  the  kids  in  line;  but  every  so  often  he’d  glance  back  at
Jason and scowl.

“Leo, Jason needs help,” Piper insisted. “He’s got a concussion or—”
“Yo,  Piper.”  One  of  the  other  guys  dropped  back  to  join  them  as  the
group  was  heading  into  the  museum.  The  new  guy  wedged  himself
between  Jason  and  Piper  and  knocked  Leo  down.  “Don’t  talk  to  these
bottom-feeders. You’re my partner, remember?”

The new guy had dark hair cut Superman style, a deep tan, and teeth so
white  they  should’ve  come  with  a  warning  label:  do  not  stare  directly  at
teeth. permanent blindness may occur. He wore a Dallas Cowboys jersey,
Western jeans and boots, and he smiled like he was God’s gift to juvenile
delinquent girls everywhere. Jason hated him instantly.

“Go away, Dylan,” Piper grumbled. “I didn’t ask to work with you.”
“Ah,  that’s  no  way  to  be.  This  is  your  lucky  day!”  Dylan  hooked  his
arm through hers and dragged her through the museum entrance. Piper shot
one last look over her shoulder like, 911.

Leo got up and brushed himself off. “I hate that guy.” He offered Jason
his arm, like they should go skipping inside together. “‘I’m Dylan. I’m so
cool, I want to date myself, but I can’t figure out how! You want to date
me instead? You’re so lucky!’”

“Leo,” Jason said, “you’re weird.”
“Yeah, you tell me that a lot.” Leo grinned. “But if you don’t remember

me, that means I can reuse all my old jokes. Come on!”

Jason  figured  that  if  this  was  his  best  friend,  his  life  must  be  pretty

messed up; but he followed Leo into the museum.

They  walked  through  the  building,  stopping  here  and  there  for  Coach
Hedge  to  lecture  them  with  his  megaphone,  which  alternately  made  him
sound like a Sith Lord or blared out random comments like “The pig says
oink.”

Leo kept pulling out nuts, bolts, and pipe cleaners from the pockets of
his  army  jacket  and  putting  them  together,  like  he  had  to  keep  his  hands
busy at all times.

Jason was too distracted to pay much attention to the exhibits, but they
were  about  the  Grand  Canyon  and  the  Hualapai  tribe,  which  owned  the
museum.

Some girls kept looking over at Piper and Dylan and snickering. Jason
figured these girls were the popular clique. They wore matching jeans and
pink tops and enough makeup for a Halloween party.

One of them said, “Hey, Piper, does your tribe run this place? Do you

get in free if you do a rain dance?”

The  other  girls  laughed.  Even  Piper’s  so-called  partner  Dylan
suppressed a smile. Piper’s snowboarding jacket sleeves hid her hands, but
Jason got the feeling she was clenching her fists.

“My dad’s Cherokee,” she said. “Not Hualapai. ’Course, you’d need a

few brain cells to know the difference, Isabel.”

Isabel  widened  her  eyes  in  mock  surprise,  so  that  she  looked  like  an
owl with a makeup addiction. “Oh, sorry! Was your mom in this tribe? Oh,
that’s right. You never knew your mom.”

Piper charged her, but before a fight could start, Coach Hedge barked,
“Enough  back  there!  Set  a  good  example  or  I’ll  break  out  my  baseball
bat!”

The group shuffled on to the next exhibit, but the girls kept calling out

little comments to Piper.

“Good to be back on the rez?” one asked in a sweet voice.
“Dad’s probably too drunk to work,” another said with fake sympathy.

“That’s why she turned klepto.”

Piper  ignored  them,  but  Jason  was  ready  to  punch  them  himself.  He
might  not  remember  Piper,  or  even  who  he  was,  but  he  knew  he  hated
mean kids.

Leo caught his arm. “Be cool. Piper doesn’t like us fighting her battles.
Besides,  if  those  girls  found  out  the  truth  about  her  dad,  they’d  be  all
bowing down to her and screaming, ‘We’re not worthy!’”

“Why? What about her dad?”
Leo  laughed  in  disbelief.  “You’re  not  kidding?  You  really  don’t

remember that your girlfriend’s dad—”

“Look,  I  wish  I  did,  but  I  don’t  even  remember  her,  much  less  her

dad.”

Leo  whistled.  “Whatever.  We  have  to  talk  when  we  get  back  to  the

dorm.”

They  reached  the  far  end  of  the  exhibit  hall,  where  some  big  glass

doors led out to a terrace.

“All right, cupcakes,” Coach Hedge announced. “You are about to see
the Grand Canyon. Try not to break it. The skywalk can hold the weight of
seventy  jumbo  jets,  so  you  featherweights  should  be  safe  out  there.  If
possible, try to avoid pushing each other over the edge, as that would cause
me extra paperwork.”

The coach opened the doors, and they all stepped outside. The Grand
Canyon  spread  before  them,  live  and  in  person.  Extending  over  the  edge
was  a  horseshoe-shaped  walkway  made  of  glass,  so  you  could  see  right
through it.

“Man,” Leo said. “That’s pretty wicked.”
Jason had to agree. Despite his amnesia and his feeling that he didn’t

belong there, he couldn’t help being impressed.

The  canyon  was  bigger  and  wider  than  you  could  appreciate  from  a
picture.  They  were  up  so  high  that  birds  circled  below  their  feet.  Five
hundred feet down, a river snaked along the canyon floor. Banks of storm
clouds had moved overhead while they’d been inside, casting shadows like
angry faces across the cliffs. As far as Jason could see in any direction, red
and  gray  ravines  cut  through  the  desert  like  some  crazy  god  had  taken  a
knife to it.

Jason got a piercing pain behind his eyes. Crazy gods ... Where had he
come  up  with  that  idea?  He  felt  like  he’d  gotten  close  to  something
the
important—something  he  should  know  about.  He  also  got 
unmistakable feeling he was in danger.

“You  all  right?”  Leo  asked.  “You’re  not  going  to  throw  up  over  the

side, are you? ’Cause I should’ve brought my camera.”

Jason  grabbed  the  railing.  He  was  shivering  and  sweaty,  but  it  had
nothing  to  do  with  heights.  He  blinked,  and  the  pain  behind  his  eyes
subsided.

“I’m fine,” he managed. “Just a headache.”
Thunder  rumbled  overhead.  A  cold  wind  almost  knocked  him

sideways.

“This can’t be safe.” Leo squinted at the clouds. “Storm’s right over us,

but it’s clear all the way around. Weird, huh?”

Jason  looked  up  and  saw  Leo  was  right.  A  dark  circle  of  clouds  had
parked  itself  over  the  skywalk,  but  the  rest  of  the  sky  in  every  direction
was perfectly clear. Jason had a bad feeling about that.

“All  right,  cupcakes!”  Coach  Hedge  yelled.  He  frowned  at  the  storm
like it bothered him too. “We may have to cut this short, so get to work!
Remember, complete sentences!”

The storm rumbled, and Jason’s head began to hurt again. Not knowing
why he did it, he reached into his jeans pocket and brought out a coin—a
circle  of  gold  the  size  of  a  half-dollar,  but  thicker  and  more  uneven.
Stamped on one side was a picture of a battle-ax. On the other was some
guy’s face wreathed in laurels. The inscription said something like ivlivs.
“Dang, is that gold?” Leo asked. “You been holding out on me!”
Jason put the coin away, wondering how he’d come to have it, and why

he had the feeling he was going to need it soon.

“It’s nothing,” he said. “Just a coin.”
Leo  shrugged.  Maybe  his  mind  had  to  keep  moving  as  much  as  his

hands. “Come on,” he said. “Dare you to spit over the edge.”

They didn’t try very hard on the worksheet. For one thing, Jason was too
distracted by the storm and his own mixed-up feelings. For another thing,
he  didn’t  have  any  idea  how  to  “name  three  sedimentary  strata  you
observe” or “describe two examples of erosion.”

Leo  was  no  help.  He  was  too  busy  building  a  helicopter  out  of  pipe

cleaners.

“Check  it  out.”  He  launched  the  copter.  Jason  figured  it  would
plummet, but the pipe-cleaner blades actually spun. The little copter made
it halfway across the canyon before it lost momentum and spiraled into the
void.

“How’d you do that?” Jason asked.
Leo shrugged. “Would’ve been cooler if I had some rubber bands.”
“Seriously,” Jason said, “are we friends?”
“Last I checked.”
“You sure? What was the first day we met? What did we talk about?”

“It was …” Leo frowned. “I don’t recall exactly. I’m ADHD, man. You

can’t expect me to remember details.”

“But I don’t remember you at all. I don’t remember anyone here. What

if—”

“You’re right and everyone else is wrong?” Leo asked. “You think you
just appeared here this morning, and we’ve all got fake memories of you?”

A little voice in Jason’s head said, That’s exactly what I think.
But it sounded crazy. Everybody here took him for granted. Everyone

acted like he was a normal part of the class—except for Coach Hedge.

“Take the worksheet.” Jason handed Leo the paper. “I’ll be right back.”
Before Leo could protest, Jason headed across the skywalk.
Their school group had the place to themselves. Maybe it was too early
in  the  day  for  tourists,  or  maybe  the  weird  weather  had  scared  them  off.
The  Wilderness  School  kids  had  spread  out  in  pairs  across  the  skywalk.
Most  were  joking  around  or  talking.  Some  of  the  guys  were  dropping
pennies over the side. About fifty feet away, Piper was trying to fill out her
worksheet,  but  her  stupid  partner  Dylan  was  hitting  on  her,  putting  his
hand  on  her  shoulder  and  giving  her  that  blinding  white  smile.  She  kept
pushing  him  away,  and  when  she  saw  Jason  she  gave  him  a  look  like,
Throttle this guy for me.

Jason motioned for her to hang on. He walked up to Coach Hedge, who

was leaning on his baseball bat, studying the storm clouds.

“Did you do this?” the coach asked him.
Jason took a step back. “Do what?” It sounded like the coach had just

asked if he’d made the thunderstorm.

Coach  Hedge  glared  at  him,  his  beady  little  eyes  glinting  under  the
brim of his cap. “Don’t play games with me, kid. What are you doing here,
and why are you messing up my job?”

“You  mean...you  don’t  know  me?”  Jason  said.  “I’m  not  one  of  your

students?”

Hedge snorted. “Never seen you before today.”
Jason was so relieved he almost wanted to cry. At least he wasn’t going
insane. He was in the wrong place. “Look, sir, I don’t know how I got here.
I  just  woke  up  on  the  school  bus.  All  I  know  is  I’m  not  supposed  to  be
here.”

“Got that right.” Hedge’s gruff voice dropped to a murmur, like he was
sharing  a  secret.  “You  got  a  powerful  way  with  the  Mist,  kid,  if  you  can
make  all  these  people  think  they  know  you;  but  you  can’t  fool  me.  I’ve
been smelling monster for days now. I knew we had an infiltrator, but you
don’t smell like a monster. You smell like a half-blood. So—who are you,
and where’d you come from?”

Most  of  what  the  coach  said  didn’t  make  sense,  but  Jason  decided  to
answer  honestly.  “I  don’t  know  who  I  am.  I  don’t  have  any  memories.
You’ve got to help me.”

Coach Hedge studied his face like was trying to read Jason’s thoughts.
“Great,” Hedge muttered. “You’re being truthful.”
“Of  course  I  am!  And  what  was  all  that  about  monsters  and  half-

bloods? Are those code words or something?”

Hedge narrowed his eyes. Part of Jason wondered if the guy was just

nuts. But the other part knew better.

“Look, kid,” Hedge said, “I don’t know who you are. I just know what
you are, and it means trouble. Now I got to protect three of you rather than
two. Are you the special package? Is that it?”

“What are you talking about?”
Hedge looked at the storm. The clouds were getting thicker and darker,

hovering right over the skywalk.

“This morning,” Hedge said, “I got a message from camp. They said an
extraction  team  is  on  the  way.  They’re  coming  to  pick  up  a  special
package, but they wouldn’t give me details. I thought to myself, Fine. The
two  I’m  watching  are  pretty  powerful,  older  than  most.  I  know  they’re
being stalked. I can smell a monster in the group. I figure that’s why the
camp  is  suddenly  frantic  to  pick  them  up.  But  then  you  pop  up  out  of
nowhere. So, are you the special package?”

The pain behind Jason’s eyes got worse than ever. Half-bloods. Camp.
Monsters.  He  still  didn’t  know  what  Hedge  was  talking  about,  but  the
words gave him a massive brain freeze—like his mind was trying to access
information that should’ve been there but wasn’t.

He stumbled, and Coach Hedge caught him. For a short guy, the coach
had hands like steel. “Whoa, there, cupcake. You say you got no memories,

huh? Fine. I’ll just have to watch you, too, until the team gets here. We’ll
let the director figure things out.”

“What director?” Jason said. “What camp?”
“Just sit tight. Reinforcements should be here soon. Hopefully nothing

happens before—”

Lightning  crackled  overhead.  The  wind  picked  up  with  a  vengeance.
Worksheets flew into the Grand Canyon, and the entire bridge shuddered.
Kids screamed, stumbling and grabbing the rails.

“I  had  to  say  something,”  Hedge  grumbled.  He  bellowed  into  his

megaphone: “Everyone inside! The cow says moo! Off the skywalk!”

“I  thought  you  said  this  thing  was  stable!”  Jason  shouted  over  the

wind.

“Under  normal  circumstances,”  Hedge  agreed,  “which  these  aren’t.

Come on!”

THE STORM CHURNED INTO A MINIATURE HURRICANE. Funnel clouds snaked
toward the skywalk like the tendrils of a monster jellyfish.

Kids screamed and ran for the building. The wind snatched away their
notebooks,  jackets,  hats,  and  backpacks.  Jason  skidded  across  the  slick
floor.

Leo  lost  his  balance  and  almost  toppled  over  the  railing,  but  Jason

grabbed his jacket and pulled him back.

“Thanks, man!” Leo yelled.
“Go, go, go!” said Coach Hedge.
Piper  and  Dylan  were  holding  the  doors  open,  herding  the  other  kids
inside. Piper’s snowboarding jacket was flapping wildly, her dark hair all
in her face. Jason thought she must’ve been freezing, but she looked calm
and  confident—telling  the  others  it  would  be  okay,  encouraging  them  to
keep moving.

Jason, Leo, and Coach Hedge ran toward them, but it was like running

through quicksand. The wind seemed to fight them, pushing them back.

Dylan and Piper pushed one more kid inside, then lost their grip on the

doors. They slammed shut, closing off the skywalk.

Piper tugged at the handles. Inside, the kids pounded on the glass, but

the doors seemed to be stuck.

“Dylan, help!” Piper shouted.
Dylan just stood there with an idiotic grin, his Cowboys jersey rippling

in the wind, like he was suddenly enjoying the storm.
“Sorry, Piper,” he said. “I’m done helping.”

He flicked his wrist, and Piper flew backward, slamming into the doors

and sliding to the skywalk deck.

“Piper!” Jason tried to charge forward, but the wind was against him,

and Coach Hedge pushed him back.

“Coach,” Jason said, “let me go!”
“Jason, Leo, stay behind me,” the coach ordered. “This is my fight. I

should’ve known that was our monster.”

“What?”  Leo  demanded.  A  rogue  worksheet  slapped  him  in  the  face,

but he swatted it away. “What monster?”

The  coach’s  cap  blew  off,  and  sticking  up  above  his  curly  hair  were
two bumps—like the knots cartoon characters get when they’re bonked on
the head. Coach Hedge lifted his baseball bat—but it wasn’t a regular bat
anymore. Somehow it had changed into a crudely shaped tree-branch club,
with twigs and leaves still attached.

Dylan  gave  him  that  psycho  happy  smile.  “Oh,  come  on,  Coach.  Let
the boy attack me! After all, you’re getting too old for this. Isn’t that why
they retired you  to  this  stupid  school?  I’ve  been  on  your  team  the  entire
season, and you didn’t even know. You’re losing your nose, grandpa.”

The  coach  made  an  angry  sound  like  an  animal  bleating.  “That’s  it,

cupcake. You’re going down.”

“You think you can protect three half-bloods at once, old man?” Dylan

laughed. “Good luck.”

Dylan pointed at Leo, and a funnel cloud materialized around him. Leo
flew off the skywalk like he’d been tossed. Somehow he managed to twist
in  midair,  and  slammed  sideways  into  the  canyon  wall.  He  skidded,
clawing furiously for any handhold. Finally he grabbed a thin ledge about
fifty feet below the skywalk and hung there by his fingertips.

“Help!”  he  yelled  up  at  them.  “Rope,  please?  Bungee  cord?

Something?”

Coach Hedge cursed and tossed Jason his club. “I don’t know who you
are,  kid,  but  I  hope  you’re  good.  Keep  that  thing  busy”—he  stabbed  a
thumb at Dylan—“while I get Leo.”

“Get him how?” Jason demanded. “You going to fly?”
“Not fly. Climb.” Hedge kicked off his shoes, and Jason almost had a
coronary. The coach didn’t have any feet. He had hooves—goat’s hooves.

Which  meant  those  things  on  his  head,  Jason  realized,  weren’t  bumps.
They were horns.

“You’re a faun,” Jason said.
“Satyr!” Hedge snapped. “Fauns are Roman. But we’ll talk about that

later.”

Hedge  leaped  over  the  railing.  He  sailed  toward  the  canyon  wall  and
hit hooves first. He bounded down the cliff with impossible agility, finding
footholds no bigger than postage stamps, dodging whirlwinds that tried to
attack him as he picked his way toward Leo.

“Isn’t that cute!” Dylan turned toward Jason. “Now it’s your turn, boy.”
Jason threw the  club.  It  seemed useless with  the  winds so strong,  but
the  club  flew  right  at  Dylan,  even  curving  when  he  tried  to  dodge,  and
smacked him on the head so hard he fell to his knees.

Piper  wasn’t as dazed as she appeared.  Her  fingers closed  around the
club  when  it  rolled  next  to  her,  but  before  she  could  use  it,  Dylan  rose.
Blood—golden blood—trickled from his forehead.

“Nice try, boy.” He glared at Jason. “But you’ll have to do better.”
The skywalk shuddered. Hairline fractures appeared in the glass. Inside
the  museum,  kids  stopped  banging  on  the  doors.  They  backed  away,
watching in terror.

Dylan’s  body  dissolved  into  smoke,  as  if  his  molecules  were  coming
unglued.  He  had  the  same  face,  the  same  brilliant  white  smile,  but  his
whole form was suddenly composed of swirling black vapor, his eyes like
electrical sparks in a living storm cloud. He sprouted black smoky wings
and  rose  above  the  skywalk.  If  angels  could  be  evil,  Jason  decided,  they
would look exactly like this.

“You’re a ventus,” Jason said, though he had no idea how he knew that

word. “A storm spirit.”

Dylan’s  laugh  sounded  like  a  tornado  tearing  off  a  roof.  “I’m  glad  I
waited,  demigod.  Leo  and  Piper  I’ve  known  about  for  weeks.  Could’ve
killed  them  at  any  time.  But  my  mistress  said  a  third  was  coming—
someone special. She’ll reward me greatly for your death!”

Two  more  funnel  clouds  touched  down  on  either  side  of  Dylan  and
turned  into  venti—ghostly  young  men  with  smoky  wings  and  eyes  that
flickered with lightning.

Piper stayed down, pretending to be dazed, her hand still gripping the
club.  Her  face  was  pale,  but  she  gave  Jason  a  determined  look,  and  he
understood the message: Keep their attention. I’ll brain them from behind.
Cute, smart, and violent. Jason wished he remembered having her as a

girlfriend.

He  clenched  his  fists  and  got  ready  to  charge,  but  he  never  got  a

chance.

Dylan raised his hand, arcs of electricity running between his fingers,

and blasted Jason in the chest.

Bang!  Jason  found  himself  flat  on  his  back.  His  mouth  tasted  like
burning  aluminum  foil.  He  lifted  his  head  and  saw  that  his  clothes  were
smoking. The lightning bolt had gone straight though his body and blasted
off his left shoe. His toes were black with soot.

The storm spirits were laughing. The winds raged. Piper was screaming

defiantly, but it all sounded tinny and far away.

Out of the corner of his eye, Jason saw Coach Hedge climbing the cliff
with Leo on his back. Piper was on her feet, desperately swinging the club
to fend off the two extra storm spirits, but they were just toying with her.
The  club  went  right  through  their  bodies  like  they  weren’t  there.  And
Dylan, a dark and winged tornado with eyes, loomed over Jason.

“Stop,”  Jason  croaked.  He  rose  unsteadily  to  his  feet,  and  he  wasn’t

sure who was more surprised: him, or the storm spirits.

“How  are  you  alive?”  Dylan’s  form  flickered.  “That  was  enough

lightning to kill twenty men!”
“My turn,” Jason said.
He  reached  in  his  pocket  and  pulled  out  the  gold  coin.  He  let  his
instincts take over, flipping the coin in the air like he’d done it a thousand
times. He caught it in his palm, and suddenly he was holding a sword—a
wickedly  sharp  double-edged  weapon.  The  ridged  grip  fit  his  fingers
perfectly, and the whole thing was gold—hilt, handle, and blade.

Dylan  snarled  and  backed  up.  He  looked  at  his  two  comrades  and

yelled, “Well? Kill him!”

The other storm spirits didn’t look happy with that order, but they flew

at Jason, their fingers crackling with electricity.

Jason  swung  at  the  first  spirit.  His  blade  passed  through  it,  and  the
creature’s  smoky  form  disintegrated.  The  second  spirit  let  loose  a  bolt  of
lightning,  but  Jason’s  blade  absorbed  the  charge.  Jason  stepped  in—one
quick thrust, and the second storm spirit dissolved into gold powder.

Dylan wailed in outrage. He looked down as if expecting his comrades
to re-form, but their gold dust remains dispersed in the wind. “Impossible!
Who are you, half-blood?”

Piper was so stunned she dropped her club. “Jason, how … ?”
Then Coach Hedge leaped back onto the skywalk and dumped Leo like

a sack of flour.

“Spirits,  fear  me!”  Hedge  bellowed,  flexing  his  short  arms.  Then  he

looked around and realized there was only Dylan.

“Curse it, boy!” he snapped at Jason. “Didn’t you leave some for me? I

like a challenge!”

Leo got to his feet, breathing hard. He looked completely humiliated,
his  hands  bleeding  from  clawing  at  the  rocks.  “Yo,  Coach  Supergoat,
whatever  you  are—I  just  fell  down  the  freaking  Grand  Canyon!  Stop
asking for challenges!”

Dylan hissed at them, but Jason could see fear in his eyes. “You have
no  idea  how  many  enemies  you’ve  awakened,  half-bloods.  My  mistress
will destroy all demigods. This war you cannot win.”

Above  them,  the  storm  exploded  into  a  full-force  gale.  Cracks
expanded  in  the  skywalk.  Sheets  of  rain  poured  down,  and  Jason  had  to
crouch to keep his balance.

A hole opened in the clouds—a swirling vortex of black and silver.
“The  mistress  calls  me  back!”  Dylan  shouted  with  glee.  “And  you,

demigod, will come with me!”

He  lunged  at  Jason, but  Piper  tackled  the  monster  from behind.  Even
though he was made of smoke, Piper somehow managed to connect. Both
of them went sprawling. Leo, Jason, and the coach surged forward to help,
but the spirit screamed with rage. He let loose a torrent that knocked them
all backward. Jason and Coach Hedge landed on their butts. Jason’s sword
skidded  across  the  glass.  Leo  hit  the  back  of  his  head  and  curled  on  his
side,  dazed  and  groaning.  Piper  got  the  worst  of  it.  She  was  thrown  off

Dylan’s  back  and  hit  the  railing,  tumbling  over  the  side  until  she  was
hanging by one hand over the abyss.

Jason started toward her, but Dylan screamed, “I’ll settle for this one!”
He grabbed Leo’s arm and began to rise, towing a half-conscious Leo
below  him.  The  storm  spun  faster,  pulling  them  upward  like  a  vacuum
cleaner.

“Help!” Piper yelled. “Somebody!”
Then she slipped, screaming as she fell.
“Jason, go!” Hedge yelled. “Save her!”
The coach launched  himself at  the  spirit with  some  serious goat  fu—
lashing out with his hooves, knocking Leo free from the spirit’s grasp. Leo
dropped safely to  the  floor, but  Dylan grappled the  coach’s arms instead.
Hedge tried to head-butt him, then kicked him and called him a cupcake.
They rose into the air, gaining speed.

Coach  Hedge  shouted  down  once  more,  “Save  her!  I  got  this!”  Then

the satyr and the storm spirit spiraled into the clouds and disappeared.

Save her? Jason thought. She’s gone!
But  again  his  instincts  won.  He  ran  to  the  railing,  thinking,  I’m  a

lunatic, and jumped over the side.

Jason  wasn’t  scared  of  heights.  He  was  scared  of  being  smashed  against
the  canyon  floor  five  hundred  feet  below.  He  figured  he  hadn’t
accomplished anything except for dying along with Piper, but he tucked in
his arms and plummeted headfirst. The sides of the canyon raced past like
a film on fast-forward. His face felt like it was peeling off.

In  a  heartbeat,  he  caught  up  with  Piper,  who  was  flailing  wildly.  He
tackled  her  waist  and  closed  his  eyes,  waiting  for  death.  Piper  screamed.
The  wind  whistled  in  Jason’s  ears.  He  wondered  what  dying  would  feel
like.  He  was  thinking,  probably  not  so  good.  He  wished  somehow  they
could never hit bottom.

Suddenly  the  wind  died.  Piper’s  scream  turned  into  a  strangled  gasp.

Jason thought they must be dead, but he hadn’t felt any impact.

“J-J-Jason,” Piper managed.
He opened his eyes. They weren’t falling. They were floating in midair,

a hundred feet above the river.

He hugged Piper tight, and she repositioned herself so she was hugging
him too. They were nose to nose. Her heart beat so hard, Jason could feel it
through her clothes.

Her breath smelled like cinnamon. She said, “How did you—”
“I didn’t,” he said. “I think I would know if I could fly…”
But then he thought: I don’t even know who I am.
He  imagined  going  up.  Piper  yelped  as  they  shot  a  few  feet  higher.
They weren’t exactly floating, Jason decided. He could feel pressure under
his feet like they were balancing at the top of a geyser.

“The air is supporting us,” he said.
“Well, tell it to support us more! Get us out of here!”
Jason  looked  down.  The  easiest  thing  would  be  to  sink  gently  to  the
canyon floor. Then he looked up. The rain had stopped. The storm clouds
didn’t seem as bad, but they were still rumbling and flashing. There was no
guarantee  the  spirits  were  gone  for  good.  He  had  no  idea  what  had
happened to Coach Hedge. And he’d left Leo up there, barely conscious.

“We  have  to  help  them,”  Piper  said,  as  if  reading  his  thoughts.  “Can

you—”

“Let’s see.” Jason thought Up, and instantly they shot skyward.
The  fact  he  was  riding  the  winds  might’ve  been  cool  under  different
circumstances, but he was too much in shock. As soon as they landed on
the skywalk, they ran to Leo.

Piper turned Leo over, and he groaned. His army coat was soaked from
the rain. His curly hair glittered gold from rolling around in monster dust.
But at least he wasn’t dead.

“Stupid … ugly … goat,” he muttered.
“Where did he go?” Piper asked.
Leo  pointed  straight  up.  “Never  came  down.  Please  tell  me  he  didn’t

actually save my life.”

“Twice,” Jason said.
Leo groaned even louder. “What happened? The tornado guy, the gold

sword … I hit my head. That’s it, right? I’m hallucinating?”

Jason had forgotten about the sword. He walked over to where it was
lying and picked it up. The blade was well balanced. On a hunch he flipped

it. Midspin, the sword shrank back into a coin and landed in his palm.

“Yep,” Leo said. “Definitely hallucinating.”
Piper shivered in her rain-soaked clothes. “Jason, those things—”
“Venti,” he said. “Storm spirits.”
“Okay. You acted like … like you’d seen them before. Who are you?”
He  shook  his  head.  “That’s  what  I’ve  been  trying  to  tell  you.  I  don’t

know.”

The storm dissipated. The other kids from the Wilderness School were
staring out the glass doors in horror. Security guards were working on the
locks now, but they didn’t seem to be having any luck.

“Coach Hedge said he had to protect three people,” Jason remembered.

“I think he meant us.”

“And that thing Dylan turned into …” Piper shuddered. “God, I can’t

believe it was hitting on me. He called us... what, demigods?”

Leo lay on his back, staring at the sky. He didn’t seem anxious to get
up.  “Don’t  know  what  demi  means,”  he  said.  “But  I’m  not  feeling  too
godly. You guys feeling godly?”

There was a brittle sound like dry twigs snapping, and the cracks in the

skywalk began to widen.

“We need to get off this thing,” Jason said. “Maybe if we—”
“Ohhh-kay,”  Leo  interrupted.  “Look  up  there  and  tell  me  if  those  are

flying horses.”

At  first  Jason  thought  Leo  had hit  his  head  too  hard.  Then  he  saw  a
dark shape descending from the east—too slow for a plane, too large for a
bird.  As  it  got  closer  he  could  see  a  pair  of  winged  animals—gray,  four-
legged, exactly like horses—except each one had a twenty-foot wingspan.
And they were pulling a brightly painted box with two wheels: a chariot.

“Reinforcements,”  he  said.  “Hedge  told  me  an  extraction  squad  was

coming for us.”

“Extraction squad?” Leo struggled to his feet. “That sounds painful.”
“And where are they extracting us to?” Piper asked.
Jason watched as the chariot landed on the far end of the skywalk. The
flying horses tucked in their wings and cantered nervously across the glass,
as if they sensed it was near breaking. Two teenagers stood in the chariot—

a tall  blond  girl  maybe  a little older  than  Jason, and a bulky  dude with  a
shaved  head  and  a  face  like  a  pile  of  bricks.  They  both  wore  jeans  and
orange  T-shirts,  with  shields  tossed  over  their  backs.  The  girl  leaped  off
before  the  chariot  had  even  finished  moving.  She  pulled  a  knife  and  ran
toward Jason’s group while the bulky dude was reining in the horses.

“Where  is  he?”  the  girl  demanded.  Her  gray  eyes  were  fierce  and  a

little startling.

“Where’s who?” Jason asked.
She frowned like his answer was unacceptable. Then she turned to Leo
and  Piper.  “What  about  Gleeson?  Where  is  your  protector,  Gleeson
Hedge?”

The  coach’s  first  name  was  Gleeson?  Jason  might’ve  laughed  if  the
morning  hadn’t  been  quite  so  weird  and  scary.  Gleeson  Hedge:  football
coach, goat man, protector of demigods. Sure. Why not?

Leo cleared his throat. “He got taken by some … tornado things.”
“Venti,” Jason said. “Storm spirits.”
The blond girl arched an eyebrow. “You mean anemoi thuellai? That’s

the Greek term. Who are you, and what happened?”

Jason did his best to explain, though it was hard to meet those intense
gray eyes. About halfway through the story, the other guy from the chariot
came  over.  He  stood  there  glaring  at  them,  his  arms  crossed.  He  had  a
tattoo of a rainbow on his biceps, which seemed a little unusual.

When Jason had finished his story, the blond girl didn’t look satisfied.
“No, no, no! She told me he would be here. She told me if I came here, I’d
find the answer.”

“Annabeth,”  the  bald  guy  grunted.  “Check  it  out.”  He  pointed  at

Jason’s feet.

Jason  hadn’t  thought  much  about  it,  but  he  was  still  missing  his  left
shoe, which had been blown off by the lightning. His bare foot felt okay,
but it looked like a lump of charcoal.

“The guy with one shoe,” said the bald dude. “He’s the answer.”
“No, Butch,” the girl insisted. “He can’t be. I was tricked.” She glared
at  the  sky  as  though  it  had  done  something  wrong.  “What  do  you  want
from me?” she screamed. “What have you done with him?”

The skywalk shuddered, and the horses whinnied urgently.

“Annabeth,” said the bald dude, Butch, “we gotta leave. Let’s get these
three  to  camp  and  figure  it  out  there.  Those  storm  spirits  might  come
back.”

She fumed for a moment. “Fine.” She fixed Jason with a resentful look.

“We’ll settle this later.”

She turned on her heel and marched toward the chariot.
Piper shook her head. “What’s her problem? What’s going on?”
“Seriously,” Leo agreed.
“We have to get you out of here,” Butch said. “I’ll explain on the way.”
“I’m not going anywhere with her.” Jason gestured toward the blonde.

“She looks like she wants to kill me.”

Butch hesitated. “Annabeth’s okay. You gotta cut her some slack. She
had a vision telling her to come here, to find a guy with one shoe. That was
supposed to be the answer to her problem.”

“What problem?” Piper asked.
“She’s been looking for one of our campers, who’s been missing three
days,”  Butch  said.  “She’s  going  out  of  her  mind  with  worry.  She  hoped
he’d be here.”

“Who?” Jason asked.
“Her boyfriend,” Butch said. “A guy named Percy Jackson.”

AFTER  A  MORNING  OF  STORM  SPIRIT’S,  goat  men,  and  flying  boyfriends,
Piper should’ve been losing her mind. Instead, all she felt was dread.

It’s starting, she thought. Just like the dream said.
She  stood  in  back  of  the  chariot  with  Leo  and  Jason,  while  the  bald
guy,  Butch,  handled  the  reins,  and  the  blond  girl,  Annabeth,  adjusted  a
bronze  navigation  device.  They  rose  over  the  Grand  Canyon  and  headed
east, icy wind ripping straight through Piper’s jacket. Behind them, more
storm clouds were gathering.

The chariot lurched and bumped. It had no seat belts and the back was
wide  open,  so  Piper  wondered  if  Jason  would  catch  her  again  if  she  fell.
That  had  been  the  most  disturbing  part  of  the  morning—not  that  Jason
could fly, but that he’d held her in his arms and yet didn’t know who she
was.

All  semester  she’d  worked  on  a  relationship,  trying  to  get  Jason  to
notice her as more than a friend. Finally she’d gotten the big dope to kiss
her. The last few weeks had been the best of her life. And then, three nights
ago,  the  dream  had  ruined  everything—that  horrible  voice,  giving  her
horrible news. She hadn’t told anyone about it, not even Jason.

Now  she  didn’t  even  have  him.  It  was  like  someone  had  wiped  his
memory, and she was stuck in the worst “do over” of all time. She wanted
to scream. Jason stood right next to her: those sky blue eyes, close-cropped
blond  hair,  that  cute  little  scar  on  his  upper  lip.  His  face  was  kind  and
gentle, but always a little sad. And he just stared at the horizon, not even
noticing her.

Meanwhile,  Leo  was  being  annoying,  as  usual.  “This  is  so  cool!”  He

spit a pegasus feather out of his mouth. “Where are we going?”

“A  safe  place,”  Annabeth  said.  “The  only safe  place  for  kids  like  us.

Camp Half-Blood.”

“Half-Blood?” Piper was immediately on guard. She hated that word.
She’d been called a half-blood too many times—half Cherokee, half white
—and it was never a compliment. “Is that some kind of bad joke?”

“She means we’re demigods,” Jason said. “Half god, half mortal.”
Annabeth  looked  back.  “You  seem  to  know  a  lot,  Jason.  But,  yes,
demigods. My mom is Athena, goddess of wisdom. Butch here is the son
of Iris, the rainbow goddess.”

Leo choked. “Your mom is a rainbow goddess?”
“Got a problem with that?” Butch said.
“No, no,” Leo said. “Rainbows. Very macho.”
“Butch  is  our  best  equestrian,”  Annabeth  said.  “He  gets  along  great

with the pegasi.”

“Rainbows, ponies,” Leo muttered.
“I’m gonna toss you off this chariot,” Butch warned.
“Demigods,”  Piper  said.  “You  mean  you  think  you’re  …  you  think

we’re—”

Lightning  flashed.  The  chariot  shuddered,  and  Jason  yelled,  “Left

wheel’s on fire!”

Piper stepped back. Sure enough, the wheel was burning, white flames

lapping up the side of the chariot.

The  wind  roared.  Piper  glanced  behind  them  and  saw  dark  shapes
forming  in  the  clouds,  more  storm  spirits  spiraling  toward  the  chariot—
except these looked more like horses than angels.

She started to say, “Why are they—”
“Anemoi  come  in  different  shapes,”  Annabeth  said.  “Sometimes
human, sometimes stallions, depending on how chaotic they are. Hold on.
This is going to get rough.”

Butch  flicked  the  reins.  The  pegasi  put  on  a  burst  of  speed,  and  the
chariot  blurred.  Piper’s  stomach  crawled  into  her  throat.  Her  vision  went
black,  and  when  it  came  back  to  normal,  they  were  in  a  totally  different
place.

A cold gray ocean stretched out to the left. Snow-covered fields, roads,
and  forests  spread  to  the  right.  Directly  below  them  was  a  green  valley,
like  an  island  of  springtime,  rimmed  with  snowy  hills  on  three  sides  and

water  to  the  north.  Piper  saw  a  cluster  of  buildings  like  ancient  Greek
temples, a big blue mansion, ball courts, a lake, and a climbing wall that
seemed  to  be  on  fire.  But  before  she  could  really  process  all  she  was
seeing, their wheels came off and the chariot dropped out of the sky.

Annabeth  and  Butch  tried  to  maintain  control.  The  pegasi  labored  to
hold the chariot in a flight pattern, but they seemed exhausted from their
burst of speed, and bearing the chariot and the weight of five people was
just too much.

“The lake!” Annabeth yelled. “Aim for the lake!”
Piper remembered something her dad had once told her, about hitting

water from up high being as bad as hitting cement.

And then—BOOM.
The  biggest  shock  was  the  cold.  She  was  underwater,  so  disoriented

that she didn’t know which way was up.

She  just  had  time  to  think:  This  would  be  a  stupid  way  to  die.Then
faces appeared in the green murk—girls with long black hair and glowing
yellow eyes. They smiled at her, grabbed her shoulders, and hauled her up.
They tossed her, gasping and shivering, onto the shore. Nearby, Butch
stood in the lake, cutting the wrecked harnesses off the pegasi. Fortunately,
the horses looked okay, but they were flapping their wings and splashing
water  everywhere.  Jason,  Leo,  and  Annabeth  were  already  on  shore,
surrounded by kids giving them blankets and asking questions. Somebody
took Piper by the arms and helped her stand. Apparently kids fell into the
lake a lot, because a detail of campers ran up with big bronze leaf blower–
looking things and blasted Piper with hot air; and in about two seconds her
clothes were dry.

There  were  at  least  twenty  campers  milling  around—the  youngest
maybe nine, the oldest college age, eighteen or nineteen—and all of them
had  orange  T-shirts  like  Annabeth’s.  Piper  looked  back  at  the  water  and
saw  those  strange  girls  just  below  the  surface,  their  hair  floating  in  the
current.  They  waved  like,  toodle-oo,  and  disappeared  into  the  depths.  A
second  later  the  wreckage  of  the  chariot  was  tossed  from  the  lake  and
landed nearby with a wet crunch.

“Annabeth!” A guy with a bow and quiver on his back pushed through

the crowd. “I said you could borrow the chariot, not destroy it!”

“Will, I’m sorry,” Annabeth sighed. “I’ll get it fixed, I promise.”
Will  scowled  at  his  broken  chariot.  Then  he  sized  up  Piper,  Leo,  and
Jason.  “These  are  the  ones?  Way  older  than  thirteen.  Why  haven’t  they
been claimed already?”

“Claimed?” Leo asked.
Before Annabeth could explain, Will said, “Any sign of Percy?”
“No,” Annabeth admitted.
The campers muttered. Piper had no idea who this guy Percy was, but

his disappearance seemed to be a big deal.

Another girl stepped forward—tall, Asian, dark hair in ringlets, plenty
of jewelry, and perfect makeup. Somehow she managed to make jeans and
an  orange  T-shirt  look  glamorous.  She  glanced  at  Leo,  fixed  her  eyes  on
Jason like he might be worthy of her attention, then curled her lip at Piper
as  if  she  were  a  week-old  burrito  that  had  just  been  pulled  out  of  a
Dumpster.  Piper  knew  this  girl’s  type.  She’d  dealt  with  a  lot  of  girls  like
this at Wilderness School and every other stupid school her father had sent
her to. Piper knew instantly they were going to be enemies.
“Well,” the girl said, “I hope they’re worth the trouble.”
Leo snorted. “Gee, thanks. What are we, your new pets?”
“No kidding,” Jason said. “How about some answers before you start
judging  us—like,  what  is  this  place,  why  are  we  here,  how  long  do  we
have to stay?”

Piper had the same questions, but a wave of anxiety washed over her.
Worth the trouble. If they only knew about her dream. They had no idea…
“Jason,” Annabeth said, “I promise we’ll answer your questions. And
Drew”—she frowned at the glamour girl—“all demigods are worth saving.
But I’ll admit, the trip didn’t accomplish what I hoped.”

“Hey,” Piper said, “we didn’t ask to be brought here.”
Drew  sniffed.  “And  nobody  wants  you,  hon.  Does  your  hair  always

look like a dead badger?”

Piper stepped forward, ready to smack her, but Annabeth said, “Piper,

stop.”

Piper did. She wasn’t a bit scared of Drew, but Annabeth didn’t seem

like somebody she wanted for an enemy.

“We need to make our new arrivals feel welcome,” Annabeth said, with
another pointed look at Drew. “We’ll assign them each a guide, give them
a tour of camp. Hopefully by the campfire tonight, they’ll be claimed.”
“Would somebody tell me what claimed means?” Piper asked.
Suddenly  there  was  a  collective  gasp.  The  campers  backed  away.  At
first  Piper  thought  she’d  done  something  wrong.  Then  she  realized  their
faces  were  bathed  in  a  strange  red  light,  as  if  someone  had  lit  a  torch
behind her. She turned and almost forgot how to breathe.

Floating  over  Leo’s  head  was  a  blazing  holographic  image  —a  fiery

hammer.

“That,” Annabeth said, “is claiming.”
“What’d I do?” Leo backed toward the lake. Then he glanced up and
yelped.  “Is  my  hair  on  fire?”  He  ducked,  but  the  symbol  followed  him,
bobbing and weaving so it looked like he was trying to write something in
flames with his head.

“This can’t be good,” Butch muttered. “The curse—”
“Butch, shut up,” Annabeth said. “Leo, you’ve just been claimed—”
“By a god,” Jason interrupted. “That’s the symbol of Vulcan, isn’t it?”
All eyes turned to him.
“Jason,” Annabeth said carefully, “how did you know that?”
“I’m not sure.”
“Vulcan?” Leo demanded. “I don’t even LIKE Star Trek. What are you

talking about?”

“Vulcan is the Roman name for Hephaestus,” Annabeth said, “the god

of blacksmiths and fire.”

The  fiery  hammer  faded,  but  Leo  kept  swatting  the  air  like  he  was

afraid it was following him. “The god of what? Who?”

Annabeth turned to the guy with the bow. “Will, would you take Leo,

give him a tour? Introduce him to his bunk-mates in Cabin Nine.”

“Sure, Annabeth.”
“What’s Cabin Nine?” Leo asked. “And I’m not a Vulcan!”
“Come on, Mr. Spock, I’ll explain everything.” Will put a hand on his

shoulder and steered him off toward the cabins.

Annabeth turned her attention back to Jason. Usually Piper didn’t like
it when other girls checked out her boyfriend, but Annabeth didn’t seem to
care that he was a good-looking guy. She studied him more like he was a
complicated blueprint. Finally she said, “Hold out your arm.”
Piper saw what she was looking at, and her eyes widened.
Jason  had  taken  off  his  windbreaker  after  his  dip  in  the  lake,  leaving
his arms bare, and on the inside of his right forearm was a tattoo. How had
Piper  never  noticed  it  before?  She’d  looked  at  Jason’s  arms  a  million
times.  The  tattoo  couldn’t  have  just  appeared,  but  it  was  darkly  etched,
impossible to miss: a dozen straight lines like a bar code, and over that an
eagle with the letters spqr.

“I’ve never seen marks like this,” Annabeth said. “Where did you get

them?”

Jason  shook  his  head.  “I’m  getting  really  tired  of  saying  this,  but  I

don’t know.”

The  other  campers  pushed  forward,  trying  to  get  a  look  at  Jason’s
tattoo. The marks seemed to bother them a lot—almost like a declaration
of war.

“They look burned into your skin,” Annabeth noticed.
“They were,” Jason said. Then he winced as if his head was aching. “I

mean … I think so. I don’t remember.”

No  one  said  anything.  It  was  clear  the  campers  saw  Annabeth  as  the

leader. They were waiting for her verdict.

“He needs to go straight to Chiron,” Annabeth decided. “Drew, would

you—”

“Absolutely.” Drew laced her arm through Jason’s. “This way, sweetie.
I’ll introduce you to our director. He’s … an interesting guy.” She flashed
Piper a smug look and led Jason toward the big blue house on the hill.

The crowd began to disperse, until only Annabeth and Piper were left.
“Who’s Chiron?” Piper asked. “Is Jason in some kind of trouble?”
Annabeth  hesitated.  “Good  question,  Piper.  Come  on,  I’ll  give  you  a

tour. We need to talk.”

PIPER SOON REALIZED ANNABETH’S HEART wasn’t in the tour.

She  talked  about  all  this  amazing  stuff  the  camp  offered—magic
archery, pegasus riding, the lava wall, fighting monsters —but she showed
no excitement, as if her mind were elsewhere. She pointed out the open-air
dining  pavilion  that  overlooked  Long  Island  Sound.  (Yes,  Long  Island,
New  York;  they’d  traveled  that  far  on  the  chariot.)  Annabeth  explained
how Camp Half-Blood was mostly a summer camp, but some kids stayed
here  year-round,  and  they’d  added  so  many  campers  it  was  always
crowded now, even in winter.

Piper  wondered  who  ran  the  camp,  and  how  they’d  known  Piper  and
her friends belonged here. She wondered if she’d have to stay full-time, or
if  she’d  be  any  good  at  the  activities.  Could  you  flunk  out  of  monster
fighting?  A  million  questions  bubbled  in  her  head,  but  given  Annabeth’s
mood, she decided to keep quiet.

As  they  climbed  a  hill  at  the  edge  of  camp,  Piper  turned  and  got  an
amazing  view  of  the  valley—a  big  stretch  of  woods  to  the  northwest,  a
beautiful beach, the creek, the canoe lake, lush green fields, and the whole
layout  of  the  cabins—a  bizarre  assortment  of  buildings  arranged  like  a
Greek  omega,  Ω,  with  a  loop  of  cabins  around  a  central  green,  and  two
wings sticking out the bottom on either side. Piper counted twenty cabins
in  all.  One  glowed  golden,  another  silver.  One  had  grass  on  the  roof.
Another  was  bright  red  with  barbed  wire  trenches.  One  cabin  was  black
with fiery green torches out front.

All of it seemed like a different world from the snowy hills and fields

outside.

“The  valley  is  protected  from  mortal  eyes,”  Annabeth  said.  “As  you
can see, the weather is controlled, too. Each cabin represents a Greek god
—a place for that god’s children to live.”

She  looked  at  Piper  like  she  was  trying  to  judge  how  Piper  was

handling the news.

“You’re saying Mom was a goddess.”
Annabeth nodded. “You’re taking this awfully calmly.”
Piper couldn’t tell her why. She couldn’t admit that this just confirmed
some  weird  feelings  she’d  had  for  years,  arguments  she’d  had  with  her
father about why there were no photos of Mom in the house, and why Dad
would  never  tell  her  exactly  how  or  why  her  mom  had  left  them.  But
mostly,  the  dream  had  warned  her  this  was  coming.  Soon  they  will  find
you, demigod, that voice had rumbled. When they do, follow our directions.
Cooperate, and your father might live.

Piper took a shaky breath. “I guess after this morning, it’s a little easier

to believe. So who’s my mom?”

“We should know soon,” Annabeth said. “You’re what—fifteen? Gods

are supposed to claim you when you’re thirteen. That was the deal.”

“The deal?”
“They  made  a  promise  last  summer  …  well,  long  story…  but  they
promised not to ignore their demigod children anymore, to claim them by
the time they turn thirteen. Sometimes it takes a little longer, but you saw
how fast Leo was claimed once he got here. Should happen for you soon.
Tonight at the campfire, I bet we’ll get a sign.”

Piper wondered if she’d have a big flaming hammer over her head, or
with  her  luck,  something  even  more  embarrassing.  A  flaming  wombat,
maybe.  Whoever  her  mother  was,  Piper  had  no  reason  to  think  she’d  be
proud  to  claim  a  kleptomaniac  daughter  with  massive  problems.  “Why
thirteen?”

“The older you get,” Annabeth said, “the more monsters notice you, try
to kill you. ’Round thirteen is usually when it starts. That’s why we send
protectors into the schools to find you guys, get you to camp before it’s too
late.”

“Like Coach Hedge?”
Annabeth  nodded.  “He’s—he  was  a  satyr:  half  man,  half  goat.  Satyrs
work  for  the  camp,  finding  demigods,  protecting  them,  bringing  them  in
when the time is right.”

Piper had no trouble believing Coach Hedge was half goat. She’d seen
the  guy  eat.  She’d  never  liked  the  coach  much,  but  she  couldn’t  believe
he’d sacrificed himself to save them.

“What  happened  to  him?”  she  asked.  “When  we  went  up  into  the

clouds, did he … is he gone for good?”

“Hard  to  say.”  Annabeth’s  expression  was  pained.  “Storm  spirits  …
difficult to battle. Even our best weapons, Celestial bronze, will pass right
through them unless you can catch them by surprise.”

“Jason’s sword just turned them to dust,” Piper remembered.
“He was lucky, then. If you hit a monster just right, you can dissolve

them, send their essence back to Tartarus.”

“Tartarus?”
“A  huge  abyss  in  the  Underworld,  where  the  worst  monsters  come
from.  Kind  of  like  a  bottomless  pit  of  evil.  Anyway,  once  monsters
dissolve, it usually takes months, even years before they can re-form again.
But since this storm spirit Dylan got away—well, I don’t know why he’d
keep  Hedge  alive.  Hedge  was  a  protector,  though.  He  knew  the  risks.
Satyrs don’t have mortal souls. He’ll be reincarnated as a tree or a flower
or something.”

Piper tried to imagine Coach Hedge as a clump of very angry pansies.

That made her feel even worse.

She gazed at the cabins below, and an uneasy feeling settled over her.
Hedge  had  died  to  get  her  here  safely.  Her  mom’s  cabin  was  down  there
somewhere, which meant she had brothers and sisters, more people she’d
have  to  betray.  Do  what  we  tell  you,  the  voice  had  said.  Or  the
consequences will be painful. She tucked her hands under her arms, trying
to stop them from shaking.

“It’ll be okay,” Annabeth promised. “You have friends here. We’ve all

been through a lot of weird stuff. We know what you’re going through.”

I doubt that, Piper thought.
“I’ve been kicked out of five different schools the past five years,” she

said. “My dad’s running out of places to put me.”

“Only  five?”  Annabeth  didn’t  sound  like  she  was  teasing.  “Piper,
we’ve all been labeled troublemakers. I ran away from home when I was
seven.”

“Seriously?”
“Oh, yeah. Most of us are diagnosed with attention deficit disorder or

dyslexia, or both—”

“Leo’s ADHD,” Piper said.
“Right.  It’s  because  we’re  hardwired  for  battle.  Restless,  impulsive—
we don’t fit in with regular kids. You should hear how much trouble Percy
—” Her face darkened. “Anyway, demigods get a bad rep. How’d you get
in trouble?”

Usually  when  someone  asked  that  question,  Piper  started  a  fight,  or
changed  the  subject,  or  caused  some  kind  of  distraction.  But  for  some
reason she found herself telling the truth.

“I steal stuff,” she said. “Well, not really steal …”
“Is your family poor?”
Piper  laughed  bitterly.  “Not  even.  I  did  it  …  I  don’t  know  why.  For

attention, I guess. My dad never had time for me unless I got in trouble.”

Annabeth  nodded.  “I  can  relate.  But  you  said  you  didn’t  really  steal?

What do you mean?”

“Well  …  nobody  ever  believes  me.  The  police,  teachers—even  the
people  I  took  stuff  from:  they’re  so  embarrassed,  they’ll  deny  what
happened.  But  the  truth  is,  I  don’t  steal  anything.  I  just  ask  people  for
things.  And  they  give  me  stuff.  Even  a  BMW  convertible.  I  just  asked.
And  the  dealer  said,  ‘Sure.  Take  it.’  Later,  he  realized  what  he’d  done,  I
guess. Then the police came after me.”

Piper waited. She was used to people calling her a liar, but when she

looked up, Annabeth just nodded.

“Interesting.  If  your  dad  were  the  god,  I’d  say  you’re  a  child  of
Hermes,  god  of  thieves.  He  can  be  pretty  convincing.  But  your  dad  is
mortal…”

“Very,” Piper agreed.
Annabeth  shook  her  head,  apparently  mystified.  “I  don’t  know,  then.

With luck, your mom will claim you tonight.”

Piper  almost  hoped  it  wouldn’t  happen.  If  her  mom  were  a  goddess,
would she know about that dream? Would she know what Piper had been
asked to do? Piper wondered if Olympian gods ever blasted their kids with
lightning for being evil, or grounded them in the Underworld.

Annabeth was studying her. Piper decided she was going to have to be
careful what she said from now on. Annabeth was obviously pretty smart.
If anyone could figure out Piper’s secret …

“Come  on,”  Annabeth  said  at  last.  “There’s  something  else  I  need  to

check.”

They hiked a little farther until they reached a cave near the top of the
hill.  Bones  and  old  swords  littered  the  ground.  Torches  flanked  the
entrance, which was covered in a velvet curtain embroidered with snakes.
It looked like the set for some kind of twisted puppet show.

“What’s in there?” Piper asked.
Annabeth  poked  her  head  inside,  then  sighed  and  closed  the  curtains.
“Nothing,  right  now.  A  friend’s  place.  I’ve  been  expecting  her  for  a  few
days, but so far, nothing.”

“Your friend lives in a cave?”
Annabeth almost managed a smile. “Actually, her family has a luxury
condo  in  Queens,  and  she  goes  to  a  finishing  school  in  Connecticut.  But
when she’s here at camp, yeah, she lives in the cave. She’s our oracle, tells
the future. I was hoping she could help me—”

“Find Percy,” Piper guessed.
All  the  energy  drained  out  of  Annabeth,  like  she’d  been  holding  it
together  for  as  long  as  she  could.  She  sat  down  on  a  rock,  and  her
expression was so full of pain, Piper felt like a voyeur.

She forced herself to look away. Her eyes drifted to the crest of the hill,
where a single pine tree dominated the skyline. Something glittered in its
lowest branch—like a fuzzy gold bath mat.

No … not a bath mat. It was a sheep’s fleece.
Okay, Piper thought. Greek camp. They’ve got a replica of the Golden

Fleece.

Then  she  noticed  the  base  of  the  tree.  At  first  she  thought  it  was
wrapped  in  a  pile  of  massive  purple  cables.  But  the  cables  had  reptilian
scales,  clawed  feet,  and  a  snakelike  head  with  yellow  eyes  and  smoking
nostrils.

“That’s—a  dragon,”  she  stammered.  “That’s  the  actual  Golden

Fleece?”

Annabeth  nodded,  but  it  was  clear  she  wasn’t  really  listening.  Her
shoulders drooped. She rubbed her face and took a shaky breath. “Sorry. A
little tired.”

“You look ready to drop,” Piper said. “How long have been searching

for your boyfriend?”

“Three days, six hours, and about twelve minutes.”
“And you’ve got no idea what happened to him?”
Annabeth shook her head miserably. “We were so excited because we
both started winter break early. We met up at camp on Tuesday, figured we
had three weeks together. It was going to be great. Then after the campfire,
he—he kissed me good night, went back to his cabin, and in the morning,
he was gone. We searched the whole camp. We contacted his mom. We’ve
tried to reach him every way we know how. Nothing. He just disappeared.”
Piper  was  thinking:  Three  days  ago.  The  same  night  she’d  had  her

dream. “How long were you guys together?”

“Since August,” Annabeth said. “August eighteenth.”
“Almost exactly when I met Jason,” Piper said. “But we’ve only been

together a few weeks.”

Annabeth winced. “Piper … about that. Maybe you should sit down.”
Piper knew where this was going. Panic started building inside her, like
her  lungs  were  filling  with  water.  “Look,  I  know  Jason  thought—he
thought  he  just  appeared  at  our  school  today.  But  that’s  not  true.  I’ve
known him for four months.”

“Piper,” Annabeth said sadly. “It’s the Mist.”
“Missed … what?”
“M-i-s-t. It’s a kind of veil separating the mortal world from the magic
world.  Mortal  minds—they  can’t  process  strange  stuff  like  gods  and
monsters, so the Mist bends reality. It makes mortals see things in a way
they  can  understand  —like  their  eyes  might  just  skip  over  this  valley
completely, or they might look at that dragon and see a pile of cables.”

Piper swallowed. “No. You said yourself I’m not a regular mortal. I’m

a demigod.”

“Even  demigods  can  be  affected.  I’ve  seen  it  lots  of  times.  Monsters
infiltrate  some  place  like  a  school,  pass  themselves  off  as  human,  and
everyone thinks they remember that person. They believe he’s always been

around.  The  Mist  can  change  memories,  even  create  memories  of  things
that never happened—”

“But  Jason’s  not  a  monster!”  Piper  insisted.  “He’s  a  human  guy,  or
demigod,  or  whatever  you  want  to  call  him.  My  memories  aren’t  fake.
They’re so real.  The  time  we  set  Coach  Hedge’s  pants  on  fire.  The  time
Jason and I watched a meteor shower on the dorm roof and I finally got the
stupid guy to kiss me....”

She found herself rambling, telling Annabeth about her whole semester
at Wilderness School. She’d liked Jason from the first week they’d met. He
was so nice to her, and so patient, he could even put up with hyperactive
Leo  and  his  stupid  jokes.  He’d  accepted  her  for  herself  and  didn’t  judge
her  because  of  the  stupid  things  she’d  done.  They’d  spent  hours  talking,
looking  at  the  stars,  and  eventually—finally—holding  hands.  All  that
couldn’t be fake.

Annabeth pursed her lips. “Piper, your memories are a lot sharper than
most. I’ll admit that, and I don’t know why that is. But if you know him so
well—”

“I do!”
“Then where is he from?”
Piper felt like she’d been hit between the eyes. “He must have told me,

but—”

“Did  you  ever  notice  his  tattoo  before  today?  Did  he  ever  tell  you

anything about his parents, or his friends, or his last school?”

“I—I don’t know, but—”
“Piper, what’s his last name?”
Her mind went blank. She didn’t know Jason’s last name. How could

that be?

She  started  to  cry.  She  felt  like  a  total  fool,  but  she  sat  down  on  the
rock  next  to  Annabeth  and  just  fell  to  pieces.  It  was  too  much.  Did
everything  that  was  good  in  her  stupid,  miserable  life  have  to  be  taken
away?

Yes, the dream had told her. Yes, unless you do exactly what we say.
“Hey,”  Annabeth  said.  “We’ll  figure  it  out.  Jason’s  here  now.  Who

knows? Maybe it’ll work out with you guys for real.”

Not likely, Piper thought. Not if the dream had told her the truth. But

she couldn’t say that.

She brushed a tear from her cheek. “You brought me up here so no one

would see me blubbering, huh?”

Annabeth shrugged. “I figured it would be hard for you. I know what

it’s like to lose your boyfriend.”

“But  I  still  can’t  believe  …  I  know we  had  something.  And  now  it’s
just gone, like he doesn’t even recognize me. If he really did just show up
today, then why? How’d he get there? Why can’t he remember anything?”
“Good  questions,”  Annabeth  said.  “Hopefully  Chiron  can  figure  that
out. But for now, we need to get you settled. You ready to go back down?”
Piper  gazed  at  the  crazy  assortment  of  cabins  in  the  valley.  Her  new
home,  a  family  who  supposedly  understood  her—but  soon  they’d  be  just
another bunch of people she’d disappointed, just another place she’d been
kicked out of. You’ll  betray  them for  us, the  voice  had warned. Or  you’ll
lose everything.

She didn’t have a choice.
“Yeah,” she lied. “I’m ready.”

On  the  central  green,  a  group  of  campers  was  playing  basketball.  They
were incredible shots. Nothing bounced off the rim. Three-pointers went in
automatically.

“Apollo’s  cabin,”  Annabeth  explained.  “Bunch  of  showoffs  with

missile weapons—arrows, basketballs.”

They  walked  past  a  central  fire  pit,  where  two  guys  were  hacking  at

each other with swords.

“Real blades?” Piper noted. “Isn’t that dangerous?”
“That’s sort of the point,” Annabeth said. “Uh, sorry. Bad pun. That’s
my cabin over there. Number Six.” She nodded to a gray building with a
carved  owl  over  the  door.  Through  the  open  doorway,  Piper  could  see
bookshelves,  weapon  displays,  and  one  of  those  computerized  SMART
Boards they have in classrooms. Two girls were drawing a map that looked
like a battle diagram.

“Speaking of blades,” Annabeth said, “come here.”

She  led  Piper  around  the  side  of  the  cabin,  to  a  big  metal  shed  that
looked  like  it  was  meant  for  gardening  tools.  Annabeth  unlocked  it,  and
inside were not gardening tools, unless  you wanted to  make  war  on your
tomato plants. The shed was lined with all sorts of weapons—from swords
to spears to clubs like Coach Hedge’s.

“Every demigod needs a weapon,” Annabeth said. “Hephaestus makes
the  best,  but  we  have  a  pretty  good  selection,  too.  Athena’s  all  about
strategy—matching the right weapon to the right person. Let’s see …”

Piper didn’t feel much like shopping for deadly objects, but she knew

Annabeth was trying to do something nice for her.

Annabeth handed her a massive sword, which Piper could hardly lift.
“No,” they both said at once.
Annabeth  rummaged  a  little  farther  in  the  shed  and  brought  out

something else.

“A shotgun?” Piper asked.
“Mossberg 500.” Annabeth checked the pump action like it was no big
deal. “Don’t worry. It doesn’t hurt humans. It’s modified to shoot Celestial
bronze, so it only kills monsters.”

“Um, I don’t think that’s my style,” Piper said.
“Mmm, yeah,” Annabeth agreed. “Too flashy.”
She  put  the  shotgun  back  and  started  poking  through  a  rack  of

crossbows when something in the corner of the shed caught Piper’s eye.

“What is that?” she said. “A knife?”
Annabeth dug it out and blew the dust off the scabbard. It looked like it

hadn’t seen the light of day in centuries.

“I  don’t  know,  Piper.”  Annabeth  sounded  uneasy.  “I  don’t  think  you

want this one. Swords are usually better.”

“You use a knife.” Piper pointed to the one strapped to Annabeth’s belt.
“Yeah, but …” Annabeth shrugged. “Well, take a look if you want.”
The  sheath  was  worn  black  leather,  bound  in  bronze.  Nothing  fancy,
nothing  flashy.  The  polished  wood  handle  fit  beautifully  in  Piper’s  hand.
When she unsheathed it, she found a triangular blade eighteen inches long
—bronze  gleaming  like  it  had  been  polished  yesterday.  The  edges  were

deadly sharp. Her reflection in the blade caught her by surprise. She looked
older, more serious, not as scared as she felt.

“It  suits  you,”  Annabeth  admitted.  “That  kind  of  blade  is  called  a
parazonium. It was mostly ceremonial, carried by high-ranking officers in
the Greek armies. It showed you were a person of power and wealth, but in
a fight, it could protect you just fine.”

“I like it,” Piper said. “Why didn’t you think it was right?”
Annabeth exhaled. “That blade has a long story. Most people would be
afraid to claim it. Its first owner … well, things didn’t turn out too well for
her. Her name was Helen.”

Piper let that sink in. “Wait, you mean the Helen? Helen of Troy?”
Annabeth nodded.
Suddenly  Piper  felt  like  she  should  be  handling  the  dagger  with

surgical gloves. “And it’s just sitting in your toolshed?”

“We’re surrounded by Ancient Greek stuff,” Annabeth said. “This isn’t
a  museum.  Weapons  like  that—they’re  meant  to  be  used.  They’re  our
heritage as demigods. That was a wedding present from Menelaus, Helen’s
first husband. She named the dagger Katoptris.”

“Meaning?”
“Mirror,”  Annabeth  said.  “Looking  glass.  Probably  because  that’s  the

only thing Helen used it for. I don’t think it’s ever seen battle.”

Piper looked at the blade again. For a moment, her own image stared
up at her, but then the reflection changed. She saw flames, and a grotesque
face like something carved from bedrock. She heard the same laughter as
in her dream. She saw her dad in chains, tied to a post in front of a roaring
bonfire.

She dropped the blade.
“Piper?” Annabeth shouted to the Apollo kids on the court, “Medic! I

need some help over here!”

“No, it’s—it’s okay,” Piper managed.
“You sure?”
“Yeah. I just …” She had to control herself. With trembling fingers, she
picked up the dagger. “I just got overwhelmed. So much happening today.
But … I want to keep the dagger, if that’s okay.”

Annabeth  hesitated.  Then  she  waved  off  the  Apollo  kids.  “Okay,  if
you’re  sure.  You  turned  really  pale,  there.  I  thought  you  were  having  a
seizure or something.”

“I’m fine,” Piper promised, though her heart was still racing. “Is there

… um, a phone at camp? Can I call my dad?”

Annabeth’s  gray  eyes  were  almost  as  unnerving  as  the  dagger  blade.
She seemed to be calculating a million possibilities, trying to read Piper’s
thoughts.

“We  aren’t  allowed  phones,”  she  said.  “Most  demigods,  if  they  use  a
cell phone, it’s like sending up a signal, letting monsters know where you
are. But … I’ve got one.” She slipped it out of her pocket. “Kind of against
the rules, but if it can be our secret …”

Piper took it gratefully, trying not to let her hands shake. She stepped

away from Annabeth and turned to face the commons area.

She  called  her  dad’s  private  line,  even  though  she  knew  what  would
happen. Voice mail. She’d been trying for three days, ever since the dream.
Wilderness  School  only  allowed  phone  privileges  once  a  day,  but  she’d
called every evening, and gotten nowhere.

Reluctantly  she  dialed  the  other  number.  Her  dad’s  personal  assistant

answered immediately. “Mr. McLean’s office.”

“Jane,” Piper said, gritting her teeth. “Where’s my dad?”
Jane  was  silent  for  a  moment,  probably  wondering  if  she  could  get
away with hanging up. “Piper, I thought you weren’t supposed to call from
school.”

“Maybe  I’m  not  at  school,”  Piper  said.  “Maybe  I  ran  away  to  live

among the woodland creatures.”

“Mmm.” Jane didn’t sound concerned. “Well, I’ll tell him you called.”
“Where is he?”
“Out.”
“You don’t know, do you?” Piper lowered her voice, hoping Annabeth
was too nice to eavesdrop. “When are you going to call the police, Jane?
He could be in trouble.”

“Piper, we are not going to turn this into a media circus. I’m sure he’s

fine. He does take off occasionally. He always comes back.”

“So it’s true. You don’t know—”

“I have to go, Piper,” Jane snapped. “Enjoy school.”
The  line  went  dead.  Piper  cursed.  She  walked  back  to  Annabeth  and

handed her the phone.

“No luck?” Annabeth asked.
Piper didn’t answer. She didn’t trust herself not to start crying again.
Annabeth glanced at the phone display and hesitated. “Your last name

is McLean? Sorry, it’s not my business. But that sounds really familiar.”

“Common name.”
“Yeah, I guess. What does your dad do?”
“He’s  got  a  degree  in  the  arts,”  Piper  said  automatically.  “He’s  a

Cherokee artist.”

Her standard response. Not a lie, just not the whole truth. Most people,
when they heard that, figured her dad sold Indian souvenirs at a roadside
stand on a reservation. Sitting Bull bobble-heads, wampum necklaces, Big
Chief tablets—that kind of thing.

“Oh.”  Annabeth  didn’t  look  convinced,  but  she  put  the  phone  away.

“You feeling okay? Want to keep going?”

Piper  fastened  her  new  dagger  to  her  belt  and  promised  herself  that
later,  when  she  was  alone,  she’d  figure  out  how  it  worked.  “Sure,”  she
said. “I want to see everything.”

All  the  cabins  were  cool,  but  none  of  them  struck  Piper  as  hers.  No
burning signs—wombats or otherwise—appeared over her head.
Cabin Eight was entirely silver and glowed like moonlight.
“Artemis?” Piper guessed.
“You know Greek mythology,” Annabeth said.
“I did some reading when my dad was working on a project last year.”
“I thought he did Cherokee art.”
Piper bit back a curse. “Oh, right. But—you know, he does other stuff

too.”

Piper  thought she’d  blown  it:  McLean, Greek  mythology.  Thankfully,

Annabeth didn’t seem to make the connection.

“Anyway,”  Annabeth  continued,  “Artemis  is  goddess  of  the  moon,
goddess  of  hunting.  But  no  campers.  Artemis  was  an  eternal  maiden,  so

she doesn’t have any kids.”

“Oh.” That kind of bummed Piper out. She’d always liked the stories

of Artemis, and figured she would make a cool mom.

“Well,  there  are the  Hunters  of  Artemis,”  Annabeth  amended.  “They
visit  sometimes.  They’re  not  the  children  of  Artemis,  but  they’re  her
handmaidens—this band of immortal teenage girls who adventure together
and hunt monsters and stuff.”

Piper perked up. “That sounds cool. They get to be immortal?”
“Unless  they  die  in  combat,  or  break  their  vows.  Did  I  mention  they

have to swear off boys? No dating—ever. For eternity.”

“Oh,” Piper said. “Never mind.”
Annabeth laughed. For a moment she looked almost happy, and Piper

thought she’d be a cool friend to hang out with in better times.

Forget it, Piper reminded herself. You’re not going to make any friends

here. Not once they find out.

They passed the next cabin, Number Ten, which was decorated like a
Barbie house with lace curtains, a pink door, and potted carnations in the
windows. They walked by the doorway, and the smell of perfume almost
made Piper gag.

“Gah, is that where supermodels go to die?”
Annabeth  smirked.  “Aphrodite’s  cabin.  Goddess  of  love.  Drew  is  the

head counselor.”

“Figures,” Piper grumbled.
“They’re not all bad,” Annabeth said. “The last head counselor we had

was great.”

“What happened to her?”
Annabeth’s expression darkened. “We should keep moving.”
They looked at the other cabins, but Piper just got more depressed. She
wondered  if  she  could  be  the  daughter  of  Demeter,  the  farming  goddess.
Then again, Piper killed every plant she ever touched. Athena was cool. Or
maybe  Hecate,  the  magic  goddess.  But  it  didn’t  really  matter.  Even  here,
where  everyone  was  supposed  to  find  a  lost  parent,  she  knew  she  would
still end up the unwanted kid. She was not looking forward to the campfire
tonight.

“We  started  with  the  twelve  Olympian  gods,”  Annabeth  explained.
“Male  gods  on  the  left,  female  on  the  right.  Then  last  year,  we  added  a
whole bunch of new cabins for the other gods who didn’t have thrones on
Olympus—Hecate, Hades, Iris—”

“What are the two big ones on the end?” Piper asked.
Annabeth frowned. “Zeus and Hera. King and queen of the gods.”
Piper  headed  that  way,  and  Annabeth  followed,  though  she  didn’t  act
very  excited.  The  Zeus  cabin  reminded  Piper  of  a  bank.  It  was  white
marble with big columns out front and polished bronze doors emblazoned
with lightning bolts.

Hera’s cabin was smaller but done in the same style, except the doors

were carved with peacock feather designs, shimmering in different colors.

Unlike  the  other  cabins,  which  were  all  noisy  and  open  and  full  of

activity, the Zeus and Hera cabins looked closed and silent.

“Are they empty?” Piper asked.
Annabeth nodded. “Zeus went a long time without having any children.
Well,  mostly.  Zeus,  Poseidon,  and  Hades,  the  eldest  brothers  among  the
gods—they’re called the Big Three. Their kids are really powerful, really
dangerous.  For  the  last  seventy  years  or  so,  they  tried  to  avoid  having
demigod children.”

“Tried to avoid it?”
“Sometimes  they  …  um,  cheated.  I’ve  got  a  friend,  Thalia  Grace,
who’s  the  daughter  of  Zeus.  But  she  gave  up  camp  life  and  became  a
Hunter  of  Artemis.  My  boyfriend,  Percy,  he’s  a  son  of  Poseidon.  And
there’s  a  kid  who  shows  up  sometimes,  Nico—son  of  Hades.  Except  for
them, there are  no demigod children  of the  Big Three gods. At least,  not
that we know of.”

“And  Hera?”  Piper  looked  at  the  peacock-decorated  doors.  The  cabin

bothered her, though she wasn’t sure why.

“Goddess of marriage.” Annabeth’s tone was carefully controlled, like
she  was  trying  to  avoid  cursing.  “She  doesn’t  have  kids  with  anyone  but
Zeus. So, yeah, no demigods. The cabin’s just honorary.”

“You don’t like her,” Piper noticed.
“We  have  a  long  history,”  Annabeth  admitted.  “I  thought  we’d  made
peace, but when Percy disappeared … I got this weird dream vision from

her.”

“Telling  you  to  come  get  us,”  Piper  said.  “But  you  thought  Percy

would be there.”

“It’s  probably  better  I  don’t  talk  about  it,”  Annabeth  said.  “I’ve  got

nothing good to say about Hera right now.”

Piper looked down the base of the doors. “So who goes in here?”
“No one. The cabin is just honorary, like I said. No one goes in.”
“Someone  does.”  Piper  pointed  at  a  footprint  on  the  dusty  threshold.

On instinct, she pushed the doors and they swung open easily.

Annabeth stepped back. “Um, Piper, I don’t think we should—”
“We’re  supposed  to  do  dangerous  stuff,  right?”  And  Piper  walked

inside.

Hera’s cabin was not someplace Piper would want to live. It was as cold as
a  freezer,  with  a  circle  of  white  columns  around  a  central  statue  of  the
goddess, ten feet tall, seated on a throne in flowing golden robes. Piper had
always thought of Greek statues as white with blank eyes, but this one was
brightly painted so it looked almost human—except huge. Hera’s piercing
eyes seemed to follow Piper.

At the goddess’s feet, a fire burned in a bronze brazier. Piper wondered
who tended it if the cabin was always empty. A stone hawk sat on Hera’s
shoulder,  and  in  her  hand  was  a  staff  topped  with  a  lotus  flower.  The
goddess’s hair was done in black plaits. Her face smiled, but the eyes were
cold and calculating, as if she were saying: Mother knows best. Now don’t
cross me or I will have to step on you.

There  was  nothing  else  in  the  cabin—no  beds,  no  furniture,  no
bathroom, no windows, nothing that anyone could actually use to live. For
a goddess of home and marriage, Hera’s place reminded Piper of a tomb.

No,  this  wasn’t  her  mom.  At  least  Piper  was  sure  of  that. She hadn’t
come in here because she felt a good connection, but because her sense of
dread  was  stronger  here.  Her  dream—that  horrible  ultimatum  she’d  been
handed—had something to do with this cabin.

She froze. They weren’t alone. Behind the statue, at a little altar in the
back, stood a figure covered in a black shawl. Only her hands were visible,
palms up. She seemed to be chanting something like a spell or a prayer.

Annabeth gasped. “Rachel?”
The other girl turned. She dropped her shawl, revealing a mane of curly
red hair and a freckled face that didn’t go with the seriousness of the cabin
or the black shawl at all. She looked about seventeen, a totally normal teen
in a green blouse and tattered jeans covered with marker doodles. Despite
the cold floor, she was barefoot.

“Hey!” She ran to give Annabeth a hug. “I’m so sorry! I came as fast

as I could.”

They  talked  for  a  few  minutes  about  Annabeth’s  boyfriend  and  how
there  was  no  news,  et  cetera,  until  finally  Annabeth  remembered  Piper,
who was standing there feeling uncomfortable.

“I’m being rude,” Annabeth apologized. “Rachel, this is Piper, one of
the half-bloods we rescued today. Piper, this is Rachel Elizabeth Dare, our
oracle.”

“The friend who lives in the cave,” Piper guessed.
Rachel grinned. “That’s me.”
“So you’re an oracle?” Piper asked. “You can tell the future?”
“More  like  the  future  mugs  me  from  time  to  time,”  Rachel  said.  “I
speak  prophecies.  The  oracle’s  spirit  kind  of  hijacks  me  every  once  in  a
while and speaks important stuff that doesn’t make any sense to anybody.
But yeah, the prophecies tell the future.”

“Oh.” Piper shifted from foot to foot. “That’s cool.”
Rachel laughed. “Don’t worry. Everybody finds it a little creepy. Even

me. But usually I’m harmless.”
“You’re a demigod?”
“Nope,” Rachel said. “Just mortal.”
“Then what are you …” Piper waved her hand around the room.
Rachel’s  smile  faded.  She  glanced  at  Annabeth,  then  back  at  Piper.
“Just  a  hunch.  Something  about  this  cabin  and  Percy’s  disappearance.
They’re  connected  somehow.  I’ve  learned  to  follow  my  hunches,
especially the last month, since the gods went silent.”

“Went silent?” Piper asked.
Rachel frowned at Annabeth. “You haven’t told her yet?”

“I  was  getting  to  that,”  Annabeth  said.  “Piper,  for  the  last  month  …
well, it’s normal for the gods not to talk to their children very much, but
usually  we  can  count  on  some  messages  now  and  then.  Some  of  us  can
even  visit  Olympus.  I  spent  practically  all  semester  at  the  Empire  State
Building.”

“Excuse me?”
“The entrance to Mount Olympus these days.”
“Oh,” Piper said. “Sure, why not?”
“Annabeth was redesigning Olympus after it was damaged in the Titan
War,” Rachel  explained.  “She’s an amazing  architect.  You should  see the
salad bar—”

“Anyway,” Annabeth said, “starting about a month ago, Olympus fell
silent. The entrance closed, and no one could get in. Nobody knows why.
It’s like the gods have sealed themselves off. Even my mom won’t answer
my prayers, and our camp director, Dionysus, was recalled.”

“Your camp director was the god of … wine?”
“Yeah, it’s a—”
“Long story,” Piper guessed. “Right. Go on.”
“That’s  it,  really,”  Annabeth  said.  “Demigods  still  get  claimed,  but
nothing else. No messages. No visits. No sign the gods are even listening.
It’s  like  something  has  happened  —something  really  bad.  Then  Percy
disappeared.”

“And  Jason  showed  up  on  our  field  trip,”  Piper  supplied.  “With  no

memory.”

“Who’s Jason?” Rachel asked.
“My—”  Piper  stopped  herself  before  she  could  say  “boyfriend,”  but
the  effort  made  her  chest  hurt.  “My  friend.  But  Annabeth,  you  said  Hera
sent you a dream vision.”

“Right,”  Annabeth  said.  “The  first  communication  from  a  god  in  a
month,  and  it’s  Hera,  the  least  helpful  goddess,  and  she  contacts  me,  her
least favorite demigod. She tells me I’ll find out what happened to Percy if
I  go  to  the  Grand  Canyon  skywalk  and  look  for  a  guy  with  one  shoe.
Instead,  I  find  you  guys,  and  the  guy  with  one  shoe  is  Jason.  It  doesn’t
make sense.”

“Something bad is happening,” Rachel agreed. She looked at Piper, and
Piper felt an overwhelming desire to tell them about her dream, to confess
that she knew what was happening—at least part of the story. And the bad
stuff was only beginning.

“Guys,” she said. “I—I need to—”
Before she could continue, Rachel’s body stiffened. Her eyes began to

glow with a greenish light, and she grabbed Piper by the shoulders.

Piper tried to back away, but Rachel’s hands were like steel clamps.
Free me, she said. But it wasn’t Rachel’s voice. It sounded like an older
woman,  speaking  from  somewhere  far  away,  down  a  long,  echoing  pipe.
Free  me,  Piper  McLean,  or  the  earth  shall  swallow  us.  It  must  be  by  the
solstice.

The  room  started  spinning.  Annabeth  tried  to  separate  Piper  from
Rachel, but it was no use. Green smoke enveloped them, and Piper was no
longer sure if she was awake or dreaming. The giant statue of the goddess
seemed to rise from its throne. It leaned over Piper, its eyes boring into her.
The statue’s mouth opened, its breath like horribly thick perfume. It spoke
in the same echoing voice: Our enemies stir. The fiery one is only the first.
Bow to his will, and their king shall rise, dooming us all. FREE ME!

Piper’s knees buckled, and everything went black.

LEO’S TOUR WAS GOING GREAT UNTIL he learned about the dragon.

The  archer  dude,  Will  Solace,  seemed  pretty  cool.  Everything  he
showed  Leo  was  so  amazing,  it  should’ve  been  illegal.  Real  Greek
warships  moored  at  the  beach  that  sometimes  had  practice  fights  with
flaming arrows and explosives?  Sweet! Arts &  crafts  sessions where  you
could  make  sculptures  with  chain  saws  and  blowtorches?  Leo  was  like,
Sign me up! The woods were stocked with dangerous monsters, and no one
should ever go in there alone? Nice! And the camp was overflowing with
fine-looking  girls.  Leo  didn’t  quite  understand  the  whole  related-to-the-
gods business, but he hoped that didn’t mean he was cousins with all these
ladies.  That  would  suck.  At  the  very  least,  he  wanted  to  check  out  those
underwater  girls  in  the  lake  again.  They  were  definitely  worth  drowning
for.

Will showed him the cabins, the dining pavilion, and the sword arena.
“Do I get a sword?” Leo asked.
Will glanced at him like he found the idea disturbing. “You’ll probably

make your own, seeing as how you’re in Cabin Nine.”

“Yeah, what’s up with that? Vulcan?”
“Usually  we  don’t  call  the  gods  by  their  Roman  names,”  Will  said.

“The original names are Greek. Your dad is Hephaestus.”

“Festus?”  Leo  had  heard  somebody  say  that  before,  but  he  was  still

dismayed. “Sounds like the god of cowboys.”

“He-phaestus,” Will corrected. “God of blacksmiths and fire.”
Leo had heard that too, but he was trying not to think about it. The god
of  fire  …  seriously?  Considering  what  had  happened  to  his  mom,  that
seemed like a sick joke.

“So the flaming hammer over my head,” Leo said. “Good thing, or bad

thing?”

Will  took  a  while  to  answer.  “You  were  claimed  almost  immediately.

That’s usually good.”

“But that Rainbow Pony dude, Butch—he mentioned a curse.”
“Ah … look, it’s nothing. Since Cabin Nine’s last head counselor died

—”

“Died? Like, painfully?”
“I ought to let your bunkmates tell you about it.”
“Yeah, where are my home dawgs? Shouldn’t their counselor be giving

me the VIP tour?”

“He,  um,  can’t.  You’ll  see  why.”  Will  forged  ahead  before  Leo  could

ask anything else.

“Curses  and  death,”  Leo  said  to  himself.  “This  just  gets  better  and

better.”

He was halfway across the green when he spotted his old babysitter. And
she was not the kind of person he expected to see at a demigod camp.

Leo froze in his tracks.
“What’s wrong?” Will asked.
Tía Callida—Auntie Callida. That’s what she’d called herself, but Leo
hadn’t seen her since he was five years old. She was just standing there, in
the shadow of a big white cabin at the end of the green, watching him. She
wore  her  black  linen  widow’s  dress,  with  a  black  shawl  pulled  over  her
hair.  Her  face  hadn’t  changed—leathery  skin,  piercing  dark  eyes.  Her
withered hands were like claws. She looked ancient, but no different than
Leo remembered.

“That old lady …” Leo said. “What’s she doing here?”
Will tried to follow his gaze. “What old lady?”
“Dude, the old lady. The one in black. How many old ladies do you see

over there?”

Will frowned. “I think you’ve had a long day, Leo. The Mist could still
be playing tricks on your mind. How about we head straight to your cabin
now?”

Leo wanted to protest, but when he looked back toward the big white
cabin,  Tía  Callida  was  gone.  He  was  sure she’d  been  there,  almost  as  if
thinking about his mom had summoned Callida back from the past.
And that wasn’t good, because Tía Callida had tried to kill him.
“Just messing with you, man.” Leo pulled some gears and levers from
his pockets and started fiddling with them to calm his nerves. He couldn’t
have everybody at camp thinking he was crazy. At least, not crazier than
he really was.

“Let’s go see Cabin Nine,” he said. “I’m in the mood for a good curse.”

From  the  outside,  the  Hephaestus  cabin  looked  like  an  oversize  RV  with
shiny metal walls and metal-slatted windows. The entrance was like a bank
vault door, circular and several feet thick. It opened with lots of brass gears
turning and hydraulic pistons blowing smoke.

Leo whistled. “They got a steampunk theme going on, huh?”
Inside, the cabin seemed deserted. Steel bunks were folded against the
walls  like  high-tech  Murphy  beds.  Each  had  a  digital  control  panel,
blinking  LED  lights,  glowing  gems,  and  interlocking  gears.  Leo  figured
each  camper  had  his  own  combination  lock  to  release  his  bed,  and  there
was probably an alcove behind it with storage, maybe some traps to keep
out unwanted visitors. At least, that’s the way Leo would’ve designed it. A
fire pole came down from the second floor, even though the cabin didn’t
appear  to  have  a  second  floor  from  the  outside.  A  circular  staircase  led
down into some kind of basement. The walls were lined with every kind of
power tool Leo could imagine, plus a huge assortment of knives, swords,
and other implements of destruction. A large workbench overflowed with
scrap  metal—screws,  bolts,  washers,  nails,  rivets,  and  a  million  other
machine  parts.  Leo  had  a  strong  urge  to  shovel  them  all  into  his  coat
pockets. He loved that kind of stuff. But he’d need a hundred more coats to
fit it all.

Looking  around,  he  could  almost  imagine  he  was  back  in  his  mom’s
machine shop. Not the weapons, maybe—but the tools, the piles of scrap,
the  smell  of  grease  and  metal  and  hot  engines.  She  would’ve  loved  this
place.

He  pushed  that  thought  away.  He  didn’t  like  painful  memories.  Keep
moving—that was his motto. Don’t dwell on things. Don’t stay in one place

too long. It was the only way to stay ahead of the sadness.

He picked a long implement from the wall. “A weed whacker? What’s

the god of fire want with a weed whacker?”

A voice in the shadows said, “You’d be surprised.”
At the back of the room, one of the bunk beds was occupied. A curtain
of  dark  camouflage  material  retracted,  and  Leo  could  see  the  guy  who’d
been invisible a second before. It was hard to tell much about him because
he was covered in a body cast. His head was wrapped in gauze except for
his  face,  which  was  puffy  and  bruised.  He  looked  like  the  Pillsbury
Doughboy after a beat-down.

“I’m Jake Mason,” the guy said. “I’d shake your hand, but …”
“Yeah,” Leo said. “Don’t get up.”
The guy cracked a smile, then winced like it hurt to move his face. Leo

wondered what had happened to him, but he was afraid to ask.

“Welcome to Cabin Nine,” Jake said. “Been almost a year since we had

any new kids. I’m head counselor for now.”

“For now?” Leo asked.
Will Solace cleared his throat. “So where is everybody, Jake?”
“Down at the forges,” Jake said wistfully. “They’re working on … you

know, that problem.”

“Oh.” Will changed the subject. “So, you got a spare bed for Leo?”
Jake  studied  Leo,  sizing  him  up.  “You  believe  in  curses,  Leo?  Or

ghosts?”

I just saw my evil babysitter Tía Callida, Leo thought. She’s got to  be
dead after all these years. And I can’t go a day without remembering my
mom in that machine shop fire. Don’t talk to me about ghosts, doughboy.

But  aloud,  he  said,  “Ghosts?  Pfft.  Nah.  I’m  cool.  A  storm  spirit
chucked me down the Grand Canyon this morning, but you know, all in a
day’s work, right?”

Jake  nodded.  “That’s  good.  Because  I’ll  give  you  the  best  bed  in  the

cabin—Beckendorf’s.”

“Whoa, Jake,” Will said. “You sure?”
Jake called out: “Bunk 1-A, please.”

The whole cabin rumbled. A circular section of the floor spiraled open
like a camera lens, and a full-size bed popped up. The bronze frame had a
built-in game station at the footboard, a stereo system in the headboard, a
glass-door  refrigerator  mounted  into  the  base,  and  a  whole  bunch  of
control panels running down the side.

Leo  jumped  right  in  and  lay  back  with  arms  behind  his  head.  “I  can

handle this.”

“It retracts into a private room below,” Jake said.
“Oh,  heck,  yes,”  Leo  said.  “See  y’all.  I’ll  be  down  in  the  Leo  Cave.

Which button do I press?”

“Hold on,” Will Solace protested. “You guys have private underground

rooms?”

Jake probably would’ve smiled if it didn’t hurt so much. “We got lots
of secrets, Will. You Apollo guys can’t have all the fun. Our campers have
been excavating the tunnel system under Cabin Nine for almost a century.
We still haven’t found the end. Anyway, Leo, if you don’t mind sleeping in
a dead man’s bed, it’s yours.”

Suddenly  Leo  didn’t  feel  like  kicking  back.  He  sat  up,  careful  not  to

touch any of the buttons. “The counselor who died—this was his bed?”

“Yeah,” Jake said. “Charles Beckendorf.”
Leo  imagined  saw  blades  coming  through  the  mattress,  or  maybe  a

grenade sewn inside the pillows. “He didn’t, like, die in this bed, did he?”

“No,” Jake said. “In the Titan War, last summer.”
“The Titan War,” Leo repeated, “which has nothing to do with this very

fine bed?”

“The Titans,” Will said, like Leo was an idiot. “The big powerful guys
that ruled the world before the gods. They tried to make a comeback last
summer. Their leader, Kronos, built a new palace on top of Mount Tam in
California.  Their  armies  came  to  New  York  and  almost  destroyed  Mount
Olympus. A lot of demigods died trying to stop them.”
“I’m guessing this wasn’t on the news?” Leo said.
It  seemed  like  a  fair  question,  but  Will  shook  his  head  in  disbelief.
“You  didn’t  hear  about  Mount  St.  Helens  erupting,  or  the  freak  storms
across the country, or that building collapsing in St. Louis?”

Leo shrugged. Last summer, he’d been on the run from another foster
home.  Then  a  truancy  officer  caught  him  in  New  Mexico,  and  the  court
sentenced him to the nearest correctional facility—the Wilderness School.
“Guess I was busy.”

“Doesn’t matter,” Jake said. “You were lucky to miss it. The thing is,

Beckendorf was one of the first casualties, and ever since then—”

“Your cabin’s been cursed,” Leo guessed.
Jake didn’t answer. Then again, the dude was in a body cast. That was
an answer. Leo started noticing little things that he hadn’t seen before—an
explosion mark on the wall, a stain on the floor that might’ve been oil …
or blood. Broken swords and smashed machines kicked into the corners of
the room, maybe out of frustration. The place did feel unlucky.

Jake sighed halfheartedly. “Well, I should get some sleep. I hope you

like it here, Leo. It used to be … really nice.”

He  closed  his  eyes,  and  the  camouflage  curtain  drew  itself  across  the

bed.

“Come on, Leo,” Will said. “I’ll take you to the forges.”
As  they  were  leaving,  Leo  looked  back  at  his  new  bed,  and  he  could
almost imagine a dead counselor sitting there—another ghost who wasn’t
going to leave Leo alone.

“HOW DID HE DIE?” LEO ASKED. “I mean Beckendorf.”

Will Solace trudged ahead. “Explosion. Beckendorf and Percy Jackson

blew up a cruise ship full of monsters. Beckendorf didn’t make it out.”

There  was  that  name  again—Percy  Jackson,  Annabeth’s  missing
boyfriend.  That  guy  must’ve  been  into  everything  around  here,  Leo
thought.

“So Beckendorf was pretty popular?” Leo asked. “I mean —before he

blew up?”

“He was awesome,” Will agreed. “It was hard on the whole camp when
he died. Jake—he became head counselor in the middle of the war. Same
as I did, actually. Jake did his best, but he never wanted to be leader. He
just  likes  building  stuff.  Then  after  the  war,  things  started  to  go  wrong.
Cabin  Nine’s  chariots  blew  up.  Their  automatons  went  haywire.  Their
inventions  started  to  malfunction.  It  was  like  a  curse,  and  eventually
people started calling it that—the Curse of Cabin Nine. Then Jake had his
accident—”

“Which  had  something  to  do  with  the  problem  he  mentioned,”  Leo

guessed.

“They’re working on it,” Will said without enthusiasm. “And here we

are.”

The  forge  looked  like  a  steam-powered  locomotive  had  smashed  into
the  Greek  Parthenon  and  they  had  fused  together.  White  marble  columns
lined  the  soot-stained  walls.  Chimneys  pumped  smoke  over  an  elaborate
gable  carved  with  a  bunch  of  gods  and  monsters.  The  building  sat  at  the
edge  of  a  stream,  with  several  waterwheels  turning  a  series  of  bronze
gears.  Leo  heard  machinery  grinding  inside,  fires  roaring,  and  hammers
ringing on anvils.

They stepped through the doorway, and a dozen guys and girls who’d
been working on various projects all froze. The noise died down to the roar
of the forge and the click-click-click of gears and levers.

“’Sup,  guys,”  Will  said.  “This  is  your  new  brother,  Leo—um,  what’s

your last name?”

“Valdez.”  Leo  looked  around  at  the  other  campers.  Was  he  really
related to all of them? His cousins came from some big families, but he’d
always just had his mom—until she died.

Kids  came  up  and  started  shaking  hands  and  introducing  themselves.
Their  names  blurred  together:  Shane,  Christopher,  Nyssa,  Harley  (yeah,
like  the  motorcycle).  Leo  knew  he’d  never  keep  everybody  straight.  Too
many of them. Too overwhelming.

None  of  them  looked  like  the  others—all  different  face  types,  skin
tone, hair color, height. You’d never think, Hey, look,  it’s the  Hephaestus
Bunch! But  they  all  had  powerful  hands,  rough  with  calluses  and  stained
with engine grease. Even little Harley, who couldn’t have been more than
eight,  looked  like  he  could  go  six  rounds  with  Chuck  Norris  without
breaking a sweat.

And  all  the  kids  shared  a  sad  kind  of  seriousness.  Their  shoulders
slumped  like  life  had  beaten  them  down  pretty  hard.  Several  looked  like
they’d  been  physically  beaten  up,  too.  Leo  counted  two  arm  slings,  one
pair of crutches, an eye patch, six Ace bandages, and about seven thousand
Band-Aids.

“Well, all right!” Leo said. “I hear this is the party cabin!”
Nobody laughed. They all just stared at him.
Will  Solace  patted  Leo’s  shoulder.  “I’ll  leave  you  guys  to  get

acquainted. Somebody show Leo to dinner when it’s time?”

“I  got  it,”  one  of  the  girls  said.  Nyssa,  Leo  remembered.  She  wore
camo pants, a tank top that showed off her buffarms, and a red bandanna
over a mop of dark hair. Except for the smiley-face Band-Aid on her chin,
she looked like one of those female action heroes, like any second she was
going to grab a machine gun and start mowing down evil aliens.

“Cool,” Leo said. “I always wanted a sister who could beat me up.”
Nyssa didn’t smile. “Come on, joker boy. I’ll show you around.”

* * *

Leo was no stranger to workshops. He’d grown up around grease monkeys
and  power  tools.  His  mom  used  to  joke  that  his  first  pacifier  was  a  lug
wrench. But he’d never seen any place like the camp forge.

One  guy  was  working  on  a  battle-ax.  He  kept  testing  the  blade  on  a
slab of concrete. Each time he swung, the ax cut into the slab like it was
warm cheese, but the guy looked unsatisfied and went back to honing the
edge.

“What’s  he  planning  to  kill  with  that  thing?”  Leo  asked  Nyssa.  “A

battleship?”

“You never know. Even with Celestial bronze—”
“That’s the metal?”
She  nodded.  “Mined  from  Mount  Olympus  itself.  Extremely  rare.
Anyway,  it  usually  disintegrates  monsters  on  contact,  but  big  powerful
ones have notoriously tough hides. Drakons, for instances—”

“You mean dragons?”
“Similar species. You’ll learn the difference in monster-fighting class.”
“Monster-fighting class. Yeah, I already got my black belt in that.”
She didn’t crack a smile. Leo hoped she wasn’t this serious all the time.

His dad’s side of the family had to have some sense of humor, right?

They  passed  a  couple  of  guys  making  a  bronze  windup  toy.  At  least
that’s  what  it  looked  like.  It  was  a  six-inch-tall  centaur—half  man,  half
horse—armed  with  a  miniature  bow.  One  of  the  campers  cranked  the
centaur’s  tail,  and  it  whirred  to  life.  It  galloped  across  the  table,  yelling,
“Die, mosquito! Die, mosquito!” and shooting everything in sight.

Apparently  this  had  happened  before,  because  everybody  knew  to  hit
the floor except Leo. Six needle-sized arrows embedded themselves in his
shirt  before  a  camper  grabbed  a  hammer  and  smashed  the  centaur  to
pieces.

“Stupid curse!” The camper waved his hammer at the sky. “I just want

a magic bug killer! Is that too much to ask?”

“Ouch,” Leo said.

Nyssa pulled the needles out of his shirt. “Ah, you’re fine. Let’s move

on before they rebuild it.”

Leo rubbed his chest as they walked. “That sort of thing happen a lot?”
“Lately,” Nyssa said, “everything we build turns to junk.”
“The curse?”
Nyssa frowned. “I don’t believe in curses. But something’s wrong. And

if we don’t figure out the dragon problem, it’s gonna get even worse.”

“The dragon problem?”  Leo  hoped she was  talking  about  a miniature
dragon,  maybe  one  that  killed  cockroaches,  but  he  got  the  feeling  he
wasn’t going to be so lucky.

Nyssa  took  him  over  to  a  big  wall  map  that  a  couple  of  girls  were
studying.  The  map  showed  the  camp—a  semicircle  of  land  with  Long
Island Sound on the north shore, the woods to the west, the cabins to the
east, and a ring of hills to the south.

“It’s got to be in the hills,” the first girl said.
“We looked in  the  hills,”  the  second  argued.  “The  woods  are  a  better

hiding place.”

“But we already set traps—”
“Hold  up,”  Leo  said.  “You  guys  lost  a  dragon?  A  real  full-size

dragon?”

“It’s a bronze dragon,” Nyssa said. “But yes, it’s a life-size automaton.
Hephaestus cabin built it years ago. Then it was lost in the woods until a
few summers back, when Beckendorf found it in pieces and rebuilt it. It’s
been helping protect the camp, but, um, it’s a little unpredictable.”

“Unpredictable,” Leo said.
“It goes haywire and smashes down cabins, sets people on fire, tries to

eat the satyrs.”

“That’s pretty unpredictable.”
Nyssa  nodded.  “Beckendorf  was  the  only  one  who  could  control  it.
Then  he  died,  and  the  dragon  just  got  worse  and  worse.  Finally  it  went
berserk and ran off. Occasionally it shows up, demolishes something, and
runs away again. Everyone expects us to find it and destroy it—”

“Destroy it?” Leo was appalled. “You’ve got a life-size bronze dragon,

and you want to destroy it?”

“It breathes fire,” Nyssa explained. “It’s deadly and out of control.”
“But it’s a dragon! Dude, that’s so awesome. Can’t you try talking to it,

controlling it?”

“We tried. Jake Mason tried. You saw how well that worked.”
Leo  thought  about  Jake,  wrapped  in  a  body  cast,  lying  alone  on  his

bunk. “Still—”

“There’s  no  other  option.”  Nyssa  turned  to  the  other  girls.  “Let’s  try
more  traps  in  the  woods—here,  here,  and  here.  Bait  them  with  thirty-
weight motor oil.”

“The dragon drinks that?” Leo asked.
“Yeah.”  Nyssa  sighed  regretfully.  “He  used  to  like  it  with  a  little
Tabasco sauce, right before bed. If he springs a trap, we can come in with
acid  sprayers—should  melt  through  his  hide.  Then  we  get  metal  cutters
and … and finish the job.”

They  all  looked  sad.  Leo  realized  they  didn’t  want  to  kill  the  dragon

any more than he did.

“Guys,” he said. “There has to be another way.”
Nyssa  looked  doubtful,  but  a  few  other  campers  stopped  what  they

were working on and drifted over to hear the conversation.

“Like  what?”  one  asked.  “The  thing  breathes  fire.  We  can’t  even  get

close.”

Fire, Leo thought. Oh, man, the things he could tell them about fire…
But  he  had  to  be  careful,  even  if  these  were  his  brothers  and  sisters.
Especially if he had to live with them.

“Well …” He hesitated. “Hephaestus is the god of fire, right? So don’t

any of you have like fire resistance or something?”

Nobody  acted  as  if  it  was  a  crazy  question,  which  was  a  relief,  but

Nyssa shook her head gravely.

“That’s  a  Cyclops  ability,  Leo.  Demigod  children  of  Hephaestus  …
we’re just good with our hands. We’re builders, craftsmen, weaponsmiths
—stuff like that.”

Leo’s shoulders slumped. “Oh.”
A guy in back said, “Well, a long time ago—”

“Yeah,  okay,”  Nyssa  conceded.  “A  long  time  ago  some  children  of
Hephaestus were born with power over fire. But that ability was very, very
rare.  And  always  dangerous.  No  demigod  like  that  has  been  born  in
centuries. The last one …” She looked at one of the other kids for help.

“Sixteen sixty-six,” the girl offered. “Guy named Thomas Faynor. He

started the Great Fire of London, destroyed most of the city.”

“Right,” Nyssa said. “When a child of Hephaestus like that appears, it
usually  means  something  catastrophic  is  about  to  happen.  And  we  don’t
need any more catastrophes.”

Leo  tried  to  keep  his  face  clear  of  emotion,  which  wasn’t  his  strong
suit. “I guess I see your point. Too bad, though. If you could resist flames,
you could get close to the dragon.”

“Then  it  would  kill  you  with  its  claws  and  fangs,”  Nyssa  said.  “Or
simply step on you. No, we’ve got to destroy it. Trust me, if anyone could
figure out another answer …”

She  didn’t  finish,  but  Leo  got  the  message.  This  was  the  cabin’s  big
test.  If  they  could  do  something  only  Beckendorf  could  do,  if  they  could
subdue  the  dragon  without  killing  it,  then  maybe  their  curse  would  be
lifted. But they were stumped for ideas. Any camper who figured out how
would be a hero.

A  conch  horn  blew  in  the  distance.  Campers  started  putting  up  their
tools and projects. Leo hadn’t realized it was getting so late, but he looked
through the windows and saw the sun going down. His ADHD did that to
him sometimes. If he was bored, a fifty-minute class seemed like six hours.
If  he  was  interested  in  something,  like  touring  a  demigod  camp,  hours
slipped away and bam—the day was over.

“Dinner,” Nyssa said. “Come on, Leo.”
“Up at the pavilion, right?” he asked.
She nodded.
“You guys go ahead,” Leo said. “Can you … give me a second?”
Nyssa  hesitated.  Then  her  expression  softened.  “Sure.  It’s  a  lot  to
process. I remember my first day. Come up when you’re ready. Just don’t
touch  anything.  Almost  every  project  in  here  can  kill  you  if  you’re  not
careful.”

“No touching,” Leo promised.

His  cabinmates  filed  out  of  the  forge.  Soon  Leo  was  alone  with  the
sounds of the bellows, the waterwheels, and small machines clicking and
whirring.

He  stared  at  the  map  of  camp—the  locations  where  his  newfound
siblings  were  going  to  put  traps  to  catch  a  dragon.  It  was  wrong.  Plain
wrong.

Very rare, he thought. And always dangerous.
He held out his hand and studied his fingers. They were long and thin,
not  callused  like  the  other  Hephaestus  campers’.  Leo  had  never  been  the
biggest or the strongest kid. He’d survived in tough neighborhoods, tough
schools, tough foster homes by using his wits. He was the class clown, the
court  jester,  because  he’d  learned  early  that  if  you  cracked  jokes  and
pretended  you  weren’t  scared,  you  usually  didn’t  get  beat  up.  Even  the
baddest  gangster  kids  would  tolerate  you,  keep  you  around  for  laughs.
Plus,  humor  was  a  good  way  to  hide  the  pain.  And  if  that  didn’t  work,
there was always Plan B. Run away. Over and over.

There was a Plan C, but he’d promised himself never to use it again.
He  felt  an  urge  to  try  it  now—something  he  hadn’t  done  since  the

accident, since his mom’s death.

He extended his fingers and felt them tingle, like they were waking up
—pins  and  needles.  Then  flames  flickered  to  life,  curls  of  red-hot  fire
dancing across his palm.

AS SOON AS JASON SAW THE HOUSE, he knew he was a dead man.

“Here  we  are!”  Drew  said  cheerfully.  “The  Big  House,  camp

headquarters.”

It  didn’t  look  threatening,  just  a  four-story  manor  painted  baby  blue
with white trim. The wraparound porch had lounge chairs, a card table, and
an empty wheelchair. Wind chimes shaped like nymphs turned into trees as
they  spun.  Jason  could  imagine  old  people  coming  here  for  summer
vacation, sitting on the porch and sipping prune juice while they watched
the sunset. Still, the windows seemed to glare down at him like angry eyes.
The  wide-open  doorway  looked  ready  to  swallow  him.  On  the  highest
gable, a bronze eagle weathervane spun in the wind and pointed straight in
his direction, as if telling him to turn around.

Every molecule in Jason’s body told him he was on enemy ground.
“I am not supposed to be here,” he said.
Drew  circled  her  arm  through  his.  “Oh,  please.  You’re  perfect  here,

sweetie. Believe me, I’ve seen a lot of heroes.”

Drew  smelled  like  Christmas—a  strange  combination  of  pine  and
nutmeg. Jason wondered if she always smelled like that, or if it was some
kind  of  special  perfume  for  the  holidays.  Her  pink  eyeliner  was  really
distracting.  Every  time  she  blinked,  he  felt  compelled  to  look  at  her.
Maybe  that  was  the  point,  to  show  off  her  warm  brown  eyes.  She  was
pretty. No doubt about that. But she made Jason feel uncomfortable.

He slipped his arm away as gently as he could. “Look, I appreciate—”
“Is it that girl?” Drew pouted. “Oh, please, tell me you are not dating

the Dumpster Queen.”

“You mean Piper? Um …”

Jason wasn’t sure how to answer. He didn’t think he’d ever seen Piper
before today, but he felt strangely guilty about it. He knew he shouldn’t be
in  this  place.  He  shouldn’t  befriend  these  people,  and  certainly  he
shouldn’t date one of them. Still … Piper had been holding his hand when
he  woke  up  on  that  bus.  She  believed  she  was  his  girlfriend.  She’d  been
brave on the skywalk, fighting those venti, and when Jason had caught her
in  midair  and  they’d  held  each  other  face-to-face,  he  couldn’t  pretend  he
wasn’t  a  little  tempted  to  kiss  her.  But  that  wasn’t  right.  He  didn’t  even
know his own story. He couldn’t play with her emotions like that.

Drew  rolled  her  eyes.  “Let  me  help  you  decide,  sweetie.  You  can  do

better. A guy with your looks and obvious talent?”

She  wasn’t  looking  at  him,  though.  She  was  staring  at  a  spot  right

above his head.

“You’re waiting for a sign,” he guessed. “Like what popped over Leo’s

head.”

“What?  No!  Well  …  yes.  I  mean,  from  what  I  heard,  you’re  pretty
powerful,  right?  You’re  going  to  be  important  at  camp,  so  I  figure  your
parent will claim you right away. And I’d love to see that. I wanna be with
you every step of the way! So is your dad or mom the god? Please tell me
it’s not your mom. I would hate it if you were an Aphrodite kid.”

“Why?”
“Then you’d be my half brother, silly. You can’t date somebody from

your own cabin. Yuck!”

“But aren’t all the gods related?” Jason asked. “So isn’t everyone here

your cousin or something?”

“Aren’t you cute! Sweetie, the godly side of your family doesn’t count
except for your parent. So anybody from another cabin—they’re fair game.
So who’s your godly parent—mom or dad?”

As usual, Jason didn’t have an answer. He looked up, but no glowing
sign popped above his head. At the top of the Big House, the weathervane
was still pointing his direction, that bronze eagle glaring as if to say, Turn
around, kid, while you still can.

Then  he  heard  footsteps  on  the  front  porch.  No—not  footsteps—

hooves.

“Chiron!” Drew called. “This is Jason. He’s totally awesome!”

Jason backed up so fast he almost tripped. Rounding the corner of the
porch  was  a  man  on  horseback.  Except  he  wasn’t  on  horseback—he  was
part of the horse. From the waist up he was human, with curly brown hair
and  a  well-trimmed  beard.  He  wore  a  T-shirt  that  said  World’s  Best
Centaur, and had a quiver and bow strapped to his back. His head was so
high up he had to duck to avoid the porch lights, because from the waist
down, he was a white stallion.

Chiron started to smile at Jason. Then the color drained from his face.
“You  …”  The  centaur’s  eyes  flared  like  a  cornered  animal’s.  “You

should be dead.”

Chiron ordered Jason—well, invited, but it sounded like an order—to come
inside the house. He told Drew to go back to her cabin, which Drew didn’t
look happy about.

The  centaur  trotted  over  to  the  empty  wheelchair  on  the  porch.  He
slipped off his quiver and bow and backed up to the chair, which opened
like  a  magician’s  box.  Chiron  gingerly  stepped  into  it  with  his  back  legs
and began scrunching himself into a space  that should’ve been much  too
small. Jason imagined a truck’s reversing noises—beep, beep, beep—as the
centaur’s lower half disappeared and the chair folded up, popping out a set
of  fake  human  legs  covered  in  a  blanket,  so  Chiron  appeared  to  be  a
regular mortal guy in a wheelchair.

“Follow me,” he ordered. “We have lemonade.”
The  living  room  looked  like  it  had  been  swallowed  by  a  rain  forest.
Grapevines curved up the walls and across the ceiling, which Jason found
a  little  strange.  He  didn’t  think  plants  grew  like  that  inside,  especially  in
the  winter,  but  these  were  leafy  green  and  bursting  with  bunches  of  red
grapes.

Leather couches faced a stone fireplace with a crackling fire. Wedged
in  one  corner,  an  old-style  Pac-Man  arcade  game  beeped  and  blinked.
Mounted on the walls was an assortment of masks—smiley/frowny Greek
theater types, feathered Mardi Gras masks, Venetian Carnevale masks with
big  beaklike  noses,  carved  wooden  masks  from  Africa.  Grapevines  grew
through their mouths so they seemed to have leafy tongues. Some had red
grapes bulging through their eyeholes.

But  the  weirdest  thing  was  the  stuffed  leopard’s  head  above  the
fireplace.  It  looked  so  real,  its  eyes  seemed  to  follow  Jason.  Then  it
snarled, and Jason nearly leaped out of his skin.

“Now, Seymour,” Chiron chided. “Jason is a friend. Behave yourself.”
“That thing is alive!” Jason said.
Chiron  rummaged  through  the  side  pocket  of  his  wheelchair  and
brought  out  a  package  of  Snausages.  He  threw  one  to  the  leopard,  who
snapped it up and licked his lips.

“You must excuse the décor,” Chiron said. “All this was a parting gift
from  our  old  director  before  he  was  recalled  to  Mount  Olympus.  He
thought  it  would  help  us  to  remember  him.  Mr.  D  has  a  strange  sense  of
humor.”

“Mr. D,” Jason said. “Dionysus?”
“Mmm  hmm.”  Chiron  poured  lemonade,  though  his  hands  were
trembling a little. “As for Seymour, well, Mr. D liberated him from a Long
Island garage sale. The leopard is Mr. D’s sacred animal, you see, and Mr.
D  was  appalled  that  someone  would  stuff  such  a  noble  creature.  He
decided to grant it life, on the assumption that life as a mounted head was
better  than  no  life  at  all.  I  must  say  it’s  a  kinder  fate  than  Seymour’s
previous owner got.”

Seymour  bared  his  fangs  and  sniffed  the  air,  as  if  hunting  for  more

Snausages.

“If  he’s  only  a  head,”  Jason  said,  “where  does  the  food  go  when  he

eats?”

“Better not to ask,” Chiron said. “Please, sit.”
Jason took some lemonade, though his stomach was fluttering. Chiron
sat back in his wheelchair and tried for a smile, but Jason could tell it was
forced. The old man’s eyes were as deep and dark as wells.

“So, Jason,” he said, “would you mind telling me—ah—where you’re

from?”

“I wish I knew.” Jason told him the whole story, from waking up on the
bus  to  crash-landing  at  Camp  Half-Blood.  He  didn’t  see  any  point  in
hiding  the  details,  and  Chiron  was  a  good  listener.  He  didn’t  react  to  the
story, other than to nod encouragingly for more.

When Jason was done, the old man sipped his lemonade.

“I see,” Chiron said. “And you must have questions for me.”
“Only one,” Jason admitted. “What did you mean when you said that I

should be dead?”

Chiron studied him with concern, as if he expected Jason to burst into
flames. “My boy, do you know what those marks on your arm mean? The
color of your shirt? Do you remember anything?”

Jason  looked  at  the  tattoo  on  his  forearm:  SPQR,  the  eagle,  twelve

straight lines.

“No,” he said. “Nothing.”
“Do  you  know  where  you  are?”  Chiron  asked.  “Do  you  understand

what this place is, and who I am?”

“You’re Chiron the centaur,” Jason said. “I’m guessing you’re the same
one from the old stories, who used to train the Greek heroes like Heracles.
This is a camp for demigods, children of the Olympian gods.”

“So you believe those gods still exist?”
“Yes,”  Jason  said  immediately.  “I  mean,  I  don’t  think  we  should
worship them  or  sacrifice  chickens  to  them  or  anything,  but  they’re  still
around  because  they’re  a  powerful  part  of  civilization.  They  move  from
country  to  country  as  the  center  of  power  shifts—like  they  moved  from
Ancient Greece to Rome.”

“I  couldn’t  have  said  it  better.”  Something  about  Chiron’s  voice  had
changed. “So you already know the gods are real. You have already been
claimed, haven’t you?”

“Maybe,” Jason answered. “I’m not really sure.”
Seymour the leopard snarled.
Chiron waited, and Jason realized what had just happened. The centaur
had switched to another language and Jason had understood, automatically
answering in the same tongue.

“Quis  erat—”  Jason  faltered,  then  made  a  conscious  effort  to  speak

English. “What was that?”

“You know Latin,” Chiron observed. “Most demigods recognize a few
phrases, of course. It’s in their blood, but not as much as Ancient Greek.
None can speak Latin fluently without practice.”

Jason  tried  to  wrap  his  mind  around  what  that  meant,  but  too  many
pieces  were  missing  from  his  memory.  He  still  had  the  feeling  that  he

shouldn’t  be  here.  It  was  wrong—and  dangerous.  But  at  least  Chiron
wasn’t  threatening.  In  fact  the  centaur  seemed  concerned  for  him,  afraid
for his safety.

The  fire  reflected  in  Chiron’s  eyes,  making  them  dance  fretfully.  “I
taught your namesake, you know, the original Jason. He had a hard path.
I’ve  seen  many  heroes  come  and  go.  Occasionally,  they  have  happy
endings.  Mostly,  they  don’t.  It  breaks  my  heart,  like  losing  a  child  each
time one of my pupils dies. But you—you are not like any pupil I’ve ever
taught. Your presence here could be a disaster.”

“Thanks,” Jason said. “You must be an inspiring teacher.”
“I  am  sorry,  my  boy.  But  it’s  true.  I  had  hoped  that  after  Percy’s

success—”

“Percy  Jackson,  you  mean.  Annabeth’s  boyfriend,  the  one  who’s

missing.”

Chiron nodded. “I hoped that after he succeeded in the Titan War and
saved  Mount  Olympus,  we  might  have  some  peace.  I  might  be  able  to
enjoy  one  final  triumph,  a  happy  ending,  and  perhaps  retire  quietly.  I
should  have  known  better.  The  last  chapter  approaches,  just  as  it  did
before. The worst is yet to come.”

In  the  corner,  the  arcade  game  made  a  sad  pew-pew-pew-pew  sound,

like a Pac-Man had just died.

“Ohh-kay,”  Jason  said.  “So—last  chapter,  happened  before,  worst  yet
to come. Sounds fun, but can we go back to the part where I’m supposed to
be dead? I don’t like that part.”

“I’m afraid I can’t explain, my boy. I swore on the River Styx and on
all things sacred that I would never …” Chiron frowned. “But you’re here,
in  violation  of  the  same  oath.  That  too,  should  not  be  possible.  I  don’t
understand. Who would’ve done such a thing? Who—”

Seymour the leopard howled. His mouth froze, half open. The arcade
game  stopped  beeping.  The  fire  stopped  crackling,  its  flames  hardening
like red glass. The masks stared down silently at Jason with their grotesque
grape eyes and leafy tongues.

“Chiron?” Jason asked. “What’s going—”
The  old  centaur  had  frozen,  too.  Jason  jumped  off  the  couch,  but
Chiron  kept  staring  at  the  same  spot,  his  mouth  open  mid-sentence.  His

eyes didn’t blink. His chest didn’t move.

Jason, a voice said.
For a horrible moment, he thought the leopard had spoken. Then dark
mist boiled out of Seymour’s mouth, and an even worse thought occurred
to Jason: storm spirits.

He  grabbed  the  golden  coin  from  his  pocket.  With  a  quick  flip,  it

changed into a sword.

The  mist  took  the  form  of  a  woman  in  black  robes.  Her  face  was
hooded, but her eyes glowed in the darkness. Over her shoulders she wore
a goatskin  cloak.  Jason wasn’t sure  how he knew  it was  goatskin,  but  he
recognized it and knew it was important.

Would you attack your patron? the woman chided. Her voice echoed in

Jason’s head. Lower your sword.

“Who are you?” he demanded. “How did you—”
Our  time  is  limited,  Jason.  My  prison  grows  stronger  by  the  hour.  It
took  me  a  full  month  to  gather  enough  energy  to  work  even  the  smallest
magic through its bonds. I’ve managed to bring you here, but now I have
little time left, and even less power. This may be the last time I can speak to
you.

“You’re in prison?” Jason decided maybe he wouldn’t lower his sword.

“Look, I don’t know you, and you’re not my patron.”

You know me, she insisted. I have known you since your birth.
“I don’t remember. I don’t remember anything.”
No,  you  don’t,  she  agreed.  That  also  was  necessary.  Long  ago,  your
father  gave  me  your  life  as  a  gift  to  placate  my  anger.  He  named  you
Jason, after my favorite mortal. You belong to me.

“Whoa,” Jason said. “I don’t belong to anyone.”
Now is the time to pay your debt, she said. Find my prison. Free me, or
their king will rise from the earth, and I will be destroyed. You will never
retrieve your memory.

“Is that a threat? You took my memories?”
You  have  until  sunset  on  the  solstice,  Jason.  Four  short  days.  Do  not

fail me.

The  dark  woman  dissolved,  and  the  mist  curled  into  the  leopard’s

mouth.

Time unfroze. Seymour’s howl turned into a cough like he’d sucked in
a  hair  ball.  The  fire  crackled  to  life,  the  arcade  machine  beeped,  and
Chiron said, “—would dare to bring you here?”

“Probably the lady in the mist,” Jason offered.
Chiron looked up in surprise. “Weren’t you just sitting … why do you

have a sword drawn?”

“I hate to tell you this,” Jason said, “but I think your leopard just ate a

goddess.”

He told Chiron about the frozen-in-time visit, the dark misty figure that

disappeared into Seymour’s mouth.

“Oh, dear,” Chiron murmured. “That does explain a lot.”
“Then why don’t you explain a lot to me?” Jason said. “Please.”
Before Chiron could say anything, footsteps reverberated on the porch
outside.  The  front  door  blew  open,  and  Annabeth  and  another  girl,  a
redhead,  burst  in,  dragging  Piper  between  them.  Piper’s  head  lolled  like
she was unconscious.

“What happened?” Jason rushed over. “What’s wrong with her?”
“Hera’s cabin,” Annabeth gasped, like they’d run all the way. “Vision.

Bad.”

The redheaded girl looked up, and Jason saw that she’d been crying.
“I think …” The redheaded girl gulped. “I think I may have killed her.”

JASON  AND  THE  REDHEAD,  WHO  INTRODUCED  herself  as  Rachel,  put  Piper
on the couch while Annabeth rushed down the hall to get a med kit. Piper
was still breathing, but she wouldn’t wake up. She seemed to be in some
kind of coma.

“We’ve got to heal her,” Jason insisted. “There’s a way, right?”
Seeing  her  so  pale,  barely  breathing,  Jason  felt  a  surge  of
protectiveness.  Maybe  he  didn’t  really  know  her.  Maybe  she  wasn’t  his
girlfriend.  But  they’d  survived  the  Grand  Canyon  together.  They’d  come
all this way. He’d left her side for a little while, and this had happened.

Chiron put his hand on her forehead and grimaced. “Her mind is in a

fragile state. Rachel, what happened?”

“I  wish  I  knew,”  she  said.  “As  soon  as  I  got  to  camp,  I  had  a
premonition about Hera’s cabin. I went inside. Annabeth and Piper came in
while I was there. We talked, and then—I just blanked out. Annabeth said I
spoke in a different voice.”

“A prophecy?” Chiron asked.
“No.  The  spirit  of  Delphi  comes  from  within.  I  know  how  that  feels.

This was like long distance, a power trying to speak through me.”

Annabeth ran in with a leather pouch. She knelt next to Piper. “Chiron,
what  happened  back  there—I’ve  never  seen  anything  like  it.  I’ve  heard
Rachel’s  prophecy  voice.  This  was  different.  She  sounded  like  an  older
woman. She grabbed Piper’s shoulders and told her—”

“To free her from a prison?” Jason guessed.
Annabeth stared at him. “How did you know that?”
Chiron made a three-fingered gesture over his heart, like a ward against

evil.

“Jason, tell them. Annabeth, the medicine bag, please.”

Chiron  trickled  drops  from  a  medicine  vial  into  Piper’s  mouth  while
Jason explained what had happened when the room froze—the dark misty
woman who had claimed to be Jason’s patron.

When he was done, no one spoke, which made him more anxious.
“So does this happen often?” he asked. “Supernatural phone calls from

convicts demanding you bust them out of jail?”

“Your patron,” Annabeth said. “Not your godly parent?”
“No, she said patron. She also said my dad had given her my life.”
Annabeth frowned. “I’ve never of heard anything like that before. You
said the storm spirit on the skywalk—he claimed to be working for some
mistress  who  was  giving  him  orders,  right?  Could  it  be  this  woman  you
saw, messing with your mind?”

“I don’t think so,” Jason said. “If she were my enemy, why would she
be asking for my help? She’s imprisoned. She’s worried about some enemy
getting more powerful. Something about a king rising from the earth on the
solstice—”

Annabeth turned to Chiron. “Not Kronos. Please tell me it’s not that.”
The  centaur  looked  miserable.  He  held  Piper’s  wrist,  checking  her

pulse.

At last he said, “It is not Kronos. That threat is ended. But …”
“But what?” Annabeth asked.
Chiron closed the medicine bag. “Piper needs rest. We should discuss

this later.”

“Or now,” Jason said. “Sir, Mr. Chiron, you told me the greatest threat
was  coming.  The  last  chapter.  You  can’t  possibly  mean  something  worse
than an army of Titans, right?”

“Oh,” Rachel said in a small voice. “Oh, dear. The woman was Hera.
Of course. Her cabin, her voice. She showed herself to Jason at the same
moment.”

“Hera?” Annabeth’s snarl was even fiercer than Seymour’s. “She took

you over? She did this to Piper?”

“I  think  Rachel’s  right,”  Jason  said.  “The  woman  did  seem  like  a
goddess. And she wore this—this goatskin cloak. That’s a symbol of Juno,
isn’t it?”

“It is?” Annabeth scowled. “I’ve never heard that.”
Chiron nodded reluctantly. “Of Juno, Hera’s Roman aspect, in her most

warlike state. The goatskin cloak was a symbol of the Roman soldier.”

“So  Hera  is  imprisoned?”  Rachel  asked.  “Who  could  do  that  to  the

queen of the gods?”

Annabeth crossed her arms. “Well, whoever they are, maybe we should

thank them. If they can shut up Hera—”

“Annabeth,”  Chiron  warned,  “she  is  still  one  of  the  Olympians.  In
many ways, she is the glue that holds the gods’ family together. If she truly
has been imprisoned and is in danger of destruction, this could shake the
foundations of the world. It could unravel the stability of Olympus, which
is  never  great even in  the  best  of times. And if  Hera  has asked Jason for
help—”

“Fine,” Annabeth grumbled. “Well, we know Titans can capture a god,
right? Atlas captured Artemis a few years ago. And in the old stories, the
gods captured each other in traps all the time. But something worse than a
Titan … ?”

Jason looked at the leopard’s head. Seymour was smacking his lips like
the goddess had tasted much better than a Snausage. “Hera said she’d been
trying to break through her prison bonds for a month.”

“Which is how long Olympus has been closed,” Annabeth said. “So the

gods must know something bad is going on.”

“But why use her energy to send me here?” Jason asked. “She wiped
my  memory,  plopped  me  into  the  Wilderness  School  field  trip,  and  sent
you a dream vision to come pick me up. Why am I so important? Why not
just send up an emergency flare to the other gods—let them know where
she is so they bust her out?”

“The  gods  need  heroes  to  do  their  will  down  here  on  earth,”  Rachel
said.  “That’s  right,  isn’t  it?  Their  fates  are  always  intertwined  with
demigods.”

“That’s true,” Annabeth said, “but Jason’s got a point. Why him? Why

take his memory?”

“And Piper’s involved somehow,” Rachel said. “Hera sent her the same
message—Free me. And, Annabeth, this must have something to do with
Percy’s disappearing.”

Annabeth  fixed  her  eyes  on  Chiron.  “Why  are  you  so  quiet,  Chiron?

What is it we’re facing?”

The old centaur’s face looked like it had aged ten years in a matter of
minutes. The lines around his eyes were deeply etched. “My dear, in this, I
cannot help you. I am so sorry.”

Annabeth  blinked.  “You’ve  never  …  you’ve  never  kept  information

from me. Even the last great prophecy—”

“I  will  be  in  my  office.”  His  voice  was  heavy.  “I  need  some  time  to
think  before  dinner.  Rachel,  will  you  watch  the  girl?  Call  Argus  to  bring
her to the infirmary, if you’d like. And Annabeth, you should speak with
Jason. Tell him about—about the Greek and Roman gods.”

“But …”
The  centaur  turned  his  wheelchair  and  rolled  off  down  the  hallway.
Annabeth’s  eyes  turned  stormy.  She  muttered  something  in  Greek,  and
Jason got the feeling it wasn’t complimentary toward centaurs.

“I’m  sorry,”  Jason  said.  “I  think  my  being  here—I  don’t  know.  I’ve
messed things up coming to the camp, somehow. Chiron said he’d sworn
an oath and couldn’t talk about it.”

“What oath?” Annabeth demanded. “I’ve never seen him act this way.

And why would he tell me to talk to you about the gods...”

Her  voice  trailed  off.  Apparently  she’d  just  noticed  Jason’s  sword
sitting on the coffee table. She touched the blade gingerly, like it might be
hot.

“Is this gold?” she said. “Do you remember where you got it?”
“No,” Jason said. “Like I said, I don’t remember anything.”
Annabeth nodded, like she’d just come up with a rather desperate plan.
“If  Chiron  won’t  help,  we’ll  need  to  figure  things  out  ourselves.  Which
means … Cabin Fifteen. Rachel, you’ll keep an eye on Piper?”

“Sure,” Rachel promised. “Good luck, you two.”
“Hold on,” Jason said. “What’s in Cabin Fifteen?”
Annabeth stood. “Maybe a way to get your memory back.”

They headed toward a newer wing of cabins in the southwest corner of the
green. Some were fancy, with glowing walls or blazing torches, but Cabin
Fifteen was not so dramatic. It looked like an old-fashioned prairie house

with  mud  walls  and  a  rush  roof.  On  the  door  hung  a  wreath  of  crimson
flowers—red poppies, Jason thought, though he wasn’t sure how he knew.

“You think this is my parent’s cabin?” he asked.
“No,” Annabeth said. “This is the cabin for Hypnos, the god of sleep.”
“Then why—”
“You’ve  forgotten  everything,”  she  said.  “If  there’s  any  god  who  can

help us figure out memory loss, it’s Hypnos.”

Inside,  even  though  it  was  almost  dinnertime,  three  kids  were  sound
asleep under piles of covers. A warm fire crackled in the hearth. Above the
mantel hung a tree branch, each twig dripping white liquid into a collection
of  tin  bowls.  Jason  was  tempted  to  catch  a  drop  on  his  finger  just  to  see
what it was, but he held himself back.

Soft  violin  music  played  from  somewhere.  The  air  smelled  like  fresh
laundry. The cabin was so cozy and peaceful that Jason’s eyelids started to
feel heavy. A nap sounded like a great idea. He was exhausted. There were
plenty of empty beds, all with feather pillows and fresh sheets and fluffy
quilts and—Annabeth nudged him. “Snap out of it.”

Jason blinked. He realized his knees had been starting to buckle.
“Cabin  Fifteen  does that to  everyone,”  Annabeth warned.  “If  you ask
me,  this place  is  even more  dangerous  than  the  Ares  cabin.  At least  with
Ares, you can learn where the land mines are.”

“Land mines?”
She  walked  up  to  the  nearest  snoring  kid  and  shook  his  shoulder.

“Clovis! Wake up!”

The  kid  looked  like  a  baby  cow.  He  had  a  blond  tuft  of  hair  on  a
wedge-shaped  head,  with  thick  features  and  a  thick  neck.  His  body  was
stocky,  but  he  had  spindly  little  arms  like  he’d  never  lifted  anything
heavier than a pillow.

“Clovis!” Annabeth shook harder, then finally knocked on his forehead

about six times.

“Wh-wh-what?”  Clovis  complained,  sitting  up  and  squinting.  He

yawned hugely, and both Annabeth and Jason yawned too.
“Stop that!” Annabeth said. “We need your help.”
“I was sleeping.”

“You’re always sleeping.”
“Good night.”
Before he could pass out, Annabeth yanked his pillow offthe bed.
“That’s not fair,” Clovis complained meekly. “Give it back.”
“First help,” Annabeth said. “Then sleep.”
Clovis sighed. His breath smelled like warm milk. “Fine. What?”
Annabeth  explained  about  Jason’s  problem.  Every  once  in  a  while

she’d snap her fingers under Clovis’s nose to keep him awake.

Clovis  must  have  been  really  excited,  because  when  Annabeth  was
done, he didn’t pass out. He actually stood and stretched, then blinked at
Jason. “So you don’t remember anything, huh?”

“Just impressions,” Jason said. “Feelings, like …”
“Yes?” Clovis said.
“Like I know I shouldn’t be here. At this camp. I’m in danger.”
“Hmm. Close your eyes.”
Jason glanced at Annabeth, but she nodded reassuringly.
Jason was afraid he’d end up snoring in one of the bunks forever, but
he closed his eyes. His thoughts became murky, as if he were sinking into a
dark lake.

The  next  thing  he  knew,  his  eyes  snapped  open.  He  was  sitting  in  a

chair by the fire. Clovis and Annabeth knelt next to him.

“—serious, all right,” Clovis was saying.
“What happened?” Jason said. “How long—”
“Just  a  few  minutes,”  Annabeth  said.  “But  it  was  tense.  You  almost

dissolved.”

Jason hoped she didn’t mean literally, but her expression was solemn.
“Usually,” Clovis said, “memories are lost for a good reason. They sink
under  the  surface  like  dreams,  and  with  a  good  sleep,  I  can  bring  them
back. But this …”

“Lethe?” Annabeth asked.
“No,” Clovis said. “Not even Lethe.”
“Lethe?” Jason asked.

Clovis  pointed  to  the  tree  branch  dripping  milky  drops  above  the
fireplace. “The River Lethe in the Underworld. It dissolves your memories,
wipes  your  mind  clean  permanently.  That’s  the  branch  of  a  poplar  tree
from the Underworld, dipped into the Lethe. It’s the symbol of my father,
Hypnos. Lethe is not a place you want to go swimming.”

Annabeth nodded. “Percy went there once. He told me it was powerful

enough to wipe the mind of a Titan.”

Jason was suddenly glad he hadn’t touched the branch. “But … that’s

not my problem?”

“No,”  Clovis  agreed.  “Your  mind  wasn’t  wiped,  and  your  memories

weren’t buried. They’ve been stolen.”

The fire crackled. Drops of Lethe water plinked into the tin cups on the
mantel.  One  of  the  other  Hypnos  campers  muttered  in  his  sleep—
something about a duck.

“Stolen,” Jason said. “How?”
“A god,” Clovis said. “Only a god would have that kind of power.”
“We know that,” said Jason. “It was Juno. But how did she do it, and

why?”

Clovis scratched his neck. “Juno?”
“He  means  Hera,”  Annabeth  said.  “For  some  reason,  Jason  likes  the

Roman names.”

“Hmm,” Clovis said.
“What?” Jason asked. “Does that mean something?”
“Hmm,” Clovis said again, and this time Jason realized he was snoring.
“Clovis!” he yelled.
“What?  What?”  His  eyes  fluttered  open.  “We  were  talking  about
pillows,  right?  No,  gods.  I  remember.  Greek  and  Roman.  Sure,  could  be
important.”

“But they’re the same gods,” Annabeth said. “Just different names.”
“Not exactly,” Clovis said.
Jason  sat  forward,  now  very  much  awake.  “What  do  you  mean,  not

exactly?”

“Well …” Clovis yawned. “Some gods are only Roman. Like Janus, or
Pompona.  But  even  the  major  Greek  gods—it’s  not  just  their  names  that

changed  when  they  moved  to  Rome.  Their  appearances  changed.  Their
attributes changed. They even had slightly different personalities.”

“But  …”  Annabeth  faltered.  “Okay,  so  maybe  people  saw  them

differently through the centuries. That doesn’t change who they are.”

“Sure it does.” Clovis began to nod off, and Jason snapped his fingers

under his nose.

“Coming, Mother!”  he yelped.  “I mean  … Yeah, I’m awake.  So,  um,
personalities.  The  gods  change  to  reflect  their  host  cultures.  You  know
that,  Annabeth.  I  mean,  these  days,  Zeus  likes  tailored  suits,  reality
television,  and  that  Chinese  food  place  on  East  Twenty-eighth  Street,
right? It was the same in Roman times, and the gods were Roman almost
as long as they were Greek. It was a big empire, lasted for centuries. So of
course their Roman aspects are still a big part of their character.”

“Makes sense,” Jason said.
Annabeth  shook  her  head,  mystified.  “But  how  do  you  know  all  this,

Clovis?”

“Oh, I spend a lot of time dreaming. I see the gods there all the time—
always shifting forms. Dreams are fluid, you know. You can be in different
places  at  once,  always  changing  identities.  It’s  a  lot  like  being  a  god,
actually.  Like  recently,  I  dreamed  I  was  watching  a  Michael  Jackson
concert,  and  then  I  was  onstage  with  Michael  Jackson,  and  we  were
singing  this  duet,  and  I  could  not  remember  the  words  for  ‘The  Girl  Is
Mine.’ Oh, man, it was so embarrassing, I—”

“Clovis,” Annabeth interrupted. “Back to Rome?”
“Right, Rome,” Clovis said. “So we call the gods by their Greek names
because  that’s  their  original  form.  But  saying  their  Roman  aspects  are
exactly  the  same—that’s  not  true.  In  Rome,  they  became  more  warlike.
They  didn’t  mingle  with  mortals  as  much.  They  were  harsher,  more
powerful—the gods of an empire.”

“Like the dark side of the gods?” Annabeth asked.
“Not exactly,” Clovis said. “They stood for discipline, honor, strength

—”

“Good  things,  then,”  Jason  said.  For  some  reason,  he  felt  the  need  to
speak up for the Roman gods, though wasn’t sure why it mattered to him.

“I  mean,  discipline  is  important,  right?  That’s  what  made  Rome  last  so
long.”

Clovis  gave  him  a  curious  look.  “That’s  true.  But  the  Roman  gods
weren’t very friendly. For instance, my dad, Hypnos … he didn’t do much
except sleep in Greek times. In Roman times, they called him Somnus. He
liked killing people who didn’t stay alert at their jobs. If they nodded offat
the  wrong  time,  boom—they  never  woke  up.  He  killed  the  helmsman  of
Aeneas when they were sailing from Troy.”

“Nice guy,” Annabeth said. “But I still don’t understand what it has to

do with Jason.”

“Neither do I,” Clovis said. “But if Hera took your memory, only she
can give it back. And if I had to meet the queen of the gods, I’d hope she
was more in a Hera mood than a Juno mood. Can I go back to sleep now?”
Annabeth stared at the branch above the fire, dripping Lethe water into
the cups. She looked so worried, Jason wondered if she was considering a
drink to forget her troubles. Then she stood and tossed Clovis his pillow.
“Thanks, Clovis. We’ll see you at dinner.”

“Can I get room service?” Clovis yawned and stumbled to his bunk. “I
feel  like  …  zzzz  …”  He  collapsed  with  his  butt  in  the  air  and  his  face
buried in pillow.

“Won’t he suffocate?” Jason asked.
“He’ll  be  fine,”  Annabeth  said.  “But  I’m  beginning  to  think  that  you

are in serious trouble.”

PIPER DREAMED ABOUT HER LAST DAY with her dad.

They were on the beach near Big Sur, taking a break from surfing. The
morning had been so perfect, Piper knew something had to go wrong soon
—a rabid horde of paparazzi, or maybe a great white shark attack. No way
her luck could hold.

But so far, they’d had excellent waves, an overcast sky, and a mile of
oceanfront  completely  to  themselves.  Dad  had  found  this  out-of-the-way
spot,  rented  a  beachfront  villa  and  the  properties  on  either  side,  and
somehow  managed  to  keep  it  secret.  If  he  stayed  there  too  long,  Piper
knew the photographers would find him. They always did.

“Nice job out there, Pipes.” He gave her the smile he was famous for:
perfect  teeth,  dimpled  chin,  a  twinkle  in  his  dark  eyes  that  always  made
grown  women  scream  and  ask  him  to  sign  their  bodies  in  permanent
marker. (Seriously, Piper thought, get a life.) His close-cropped black hair
gleamed with salt water. “You’re getting better at hanging ten.”

Piper  flushed  with  pride,  though  she  suspected  Dad  was  just  being
nice. She still spent most of her time wiping out. It took special talent to
run over yourself with a surfboard. Her dad was the natural surfer—which
made no sense since he’d been raised a poor kid in Oklahoma, hundreds of
miles  from  the  ocean—but  he  was  amazing  on  the  curls.  Piper  would’ve
given  up  surfing  a  long  time  ago  except  it  let  her  spend  time  with  him.
There weren’t many ways she could do that.

“Sandwich?” Dad dug into the picnic basket his chef, Arno, had made.
“Let’s  see:  turkey  pesto,  crabcake  wasabi—ah,  a  Piper  special.  Peanut
butter and jelly.”

She took the sandwich, though her stomach was too upset to eat. She
always asked for PB&J. Piper was vegetarian, for one thing. She had been
ever  since  they’d  driven  past  that  slaughterhouse  in  Chino  and  the  smell

had  made  her  insides  want  to  come  outside.  But  it  was  more  than  that.
PB&J  was  simple  food,  like  a  regular  kid  would  have  for  lunch.
Sometimes  she  pretended  her  dad  had  actually  made  it  for  her,  not  a
personal  chef  from  France  who  liked  to  wrap  the  sandwich  in  gold  leaf
paper with a light-up sparkler instead of a toothpick.

Couldn’t  anything  be  simple?  That’s  why  she  turned  down  the  fancy
clothes Dad always offered, the designer shoes, the trips to the salon. She
cut her own hair with a pair of plastic Garfield safety scissors, deliberately
making it uneven. She preferred to wear beat-up running shoes, jeans, a T-
shirt, and her old Polartec jacket from the time they went snowboarding.

And she hated the snobby private schools Dad thought were good for

her. She kept getting herself kicked out. He kept finding more schools.

Yesterday, she’d pulled her biggest heist yet—driving that “borrowed”
BMW  out  of  the  dealership.  She  had  to  pull  a  bigger  stunt  each  time,
because it took more and more to get Dad’s attention.

Now she regretted it. Dad didn’t know yet.
She’d meant to tell him that morning. Then he’d surprised her with this
trip, and she couldn’t ruin it. It was the first time they’d had a day together
in what—three months?

“What’s wrong?” He passed her a soda.
“Dad, there’s something—”
“Hold  on,  Pipes.  That’s  a  serious  face.  Ready  for  Any  Three

Questions?”

They’d  been  playing  that  game  for  years—her  dad’s  way  of  staying
connected  in  the  shortest  possible  amount  of  time.  They  could  ask  each
other  any  three  questions.  Nothing  off-limits,  and  you  had  to  answer
honestly. The rest of the time, Dad promised to stay out of her business—
which was easy, since he was never around.

Piper  knew  most  kids  would  find  a  Q&A  like  this  with  their  parents
totally  mortifying.  But  she  looked  forward  to  it.  It  was  like  surfing—not
easy, but a way to feel like she actually had a father.

“First question,” she said. “Mom.”
No surprise. That was always one of her topics.
Her dad shrugged with resignation. “What do you want to know, Piper?
I’ve  already  told  you—she  disappeared.  I  don’t  know  why,  or  where  she

went. After you were born, she simply left. I never heard from her again.”

“Do you think she’s still alive?”
It wasn’t a real question. Dad was allowed to say he didn’t know. But

she wanted to hear how he’d answer.

He stared at the waves.
“Your  Grandpa  Tom,”  he  said  at  last,  “he  used  to  tell  me  that  if  you
walked far enough toward the sunset, you’d come to Ghost Country, where
you could  talk to  the  dead. He  said  a long  time  ago, you could  bring  the
dead back; but then mankind messed up. Well, it’s a long story.”

“Like the Land of the Dead for the Greeks,” Piper remembered. “It was

in the west, too. And Orpheus—he tried to bring his wife back.”

Dad  nodded.  A  year  before,  he’d  had  his  biggest  role  as  an  Ancient
Greek king. Piper had helped him research the myths—all those old stories
about  people  getting  turned  to  stone  and  boiled  in  lakes  of  lava.  They’d
had a fun time reading together, and it made Piper’s life seem not so bad.
For a while she’d felt closer to her dad, but like everything, it didn’t last.

“Lot  of  similarities  between  Greek  and  Cherokee,”  Dad  agreed.
“Wonder  what  your  grandpa  would  think  if  he  saw  us  now,  sitting  at  the
end of the western land. He’d probably think we’re ghosts.”

“So you’re saying you believe those stories? You think Mom is dead?”
His eyes watered, and Piper saw the sadness behind them. She figured
that’s  why  women  were  so  attracted  to  him.  On  the  surface,  he  seemed
confident and rugged, but his eyes held so much sadness. Women wanted
to find out why. They wanted to comfort him, and they never could. Dad
told Piper it was a Cherokee thing—they all had that darkness inside them
from generations of pain and suffering. But Piper thought it was more than
that.

“I don’t believe the stories,” he said. “They’re fun to tell, but if I really
believed  in  Ghost  Country,  or  animal  spirits,  or  Greek  gods  …  I  don’t
think I could sleep at night. I’d always be looking for somebody to blame.”
Somebody  to  blame  for  Grandpa  Tom  dying  of  lung  cancer,  Piper
thought, before Dad got famous and had the money to help. For Mom—the
only woman he’d ever loved —abandoning him without even a good-bye
note, leaving him with a newborn girl he wasn’t ready to care for. For his
being so successful, and yet still not happy.

“I don’t know if she’s alive,” he said. “But I do think she might as well
be  in  Ghost  Country,  Piper.  There’s  no  getting  her  back.  If  I  believed
otherwise … I don’t think I could stand that, either.”

Behind them, a car door opened. Piper turned, and her heart sank. Jane
was marching toward them in her business suit, wobbling over the sand in
her high heels, her PDA in hand. The look on her face was partly annoyed,
partly triumphant, and Piper knew she’d been in touch with the police.

Please  fall  down,  Piper  prayed.  If  there’s  any  animal  spirit  or  Greek
god that can help, make Jane take a header. I’m not asking for permanent
damage, just knock her out for the rest of the day, please?

But Jane kept advancing.
“Dad,” Piper said quickly. “Something happened yesterday…”
But  he’d  seen  Jane,  too.  He  was  already  reconstructing  his  business
face.  Jane  wouldn’t  be  here  if  it  wasn’t  serious.  A  studio  head  called—a
project fell through—or Piper had messed up again.

“We’ll get back to that, Pipes,” he promised. “I’d better see what Jane

wants. You know how she is.”

Yes—Piper  knew.  Dad  trudged  across  the  sand  to  meet  her.  Piper
couldn’t hear them talking, but she didn’t need to. She was good at reading
faces. Jane gave him the facts about the stolen car, occasionally pointing at
Piper like she was a disgusting pet that had whizzed on the carpet.

Dad’s  energy  and  enthusiasm  drained  away.  He  gestured  for  Jane  to
wait.  Then  he  walked  back  to  Piper.  She  couldn’t  stand  that  look  in  his
eyes—like she’d betrayed his trust.

“You told me you would try, Piper,” he said.
“Dad,  I  hate  that  school.  I  can’t  do  it.  I  wanted  to  tell  you  about  the

BMW, but—”

“They’ve  expelled  you,”  he  said.  “A  car,  Piper?  You’re  sixteen  next

year. I would buy you any car you want. How could you—”

“You mean Jane would buy me a car?” Piper demanded. She couldn’t
help it. The anger just welled up and spilled out of her. “Dad, just listen for
once.  Don’t  make  me  wait  for  you  to  ask  your  stupid  three  questions.  I
want to go to regular school. I want you to take me to parents’ night, not
Jane. Or homeschool me! I learned so much when we read about Greece
together. We could do that all the time! We could—”

“Don’t make this about me,” her dad said. “I do the best I can, Piper.

We’ve had this conversation.”

No, she thought. You’ve cut off this conversation. For years.
Her  dad  sighed.  “Jane’s  talked  to  the  police,  brokered  a  deal.  The
dealership won’t press charges, but you have to agree to go to a boarding
school  in  Nevada.  They  specialize  in  problems  …  in  kids  with  tough
issues.”

“That’s what I am.” Her voice trembled. “A problem.”
“Piper … you said you’d try. You let me down. I don’t know what else

to do.”

“Do  anything,”  she said.  “But  do it yourself!  Don’t let Jane handle  it

for you. You can’t just send me away.”

Dad looked down at the picnic basket. His sandwich sat uneaten on a
piece of gold leaf paper. They’d planned for a whole afternoon in the surf.
Now that was ruined.

Piper  couldn’t  believe  he’d  really  give  in  to  Jane’s  wishes.  Not  this

time. Not on something as huge as boarding school.
“Go see her,” Dad said. “She’s got the details.”
“Dad …”
He  looked  away,  gazing  at  the  ocean like he could  see all the  way  to
Ghost Country. Piper promised herself she wouldn’t cry. She headed up the
beach toward Jane, who smiled coldly and held up a plane ticket. As usual,
she’d  already arranged  everything.  Piper  was  just another problem  of the
day that Jane could now check off her list.

Piper’s dream changed.

She stood on a mountaintop at night, city lights glimmering below. In
front  of  her,  a  bonfire  blazed.  Purplish  flames  seemed  to  cast  more
shadows than light, but the heat was so intense, her clothes steamed.

“This is your second warning,” a voice rumbled, so powerful it shook
the  earth. Piper  had heard  that voice  before  in  her dreams. She’d tried  to
convince herself it wasn’t as scary as she remembered, but it was worse.

Behind the bonfire, a huge face loomed out of the darkness. It seemed
to  float  above  the  flames,  but  Piper  knew  it  must  be  connected  to  an
enormous  body.  The  crude  features  might’ve  been  chiseled  out  of  rock.

The face  hardly  seemed alive  except  for  its piercing  white  eyes, like raw
diamonds, and its horrible frame of dreadlocks, braided with human bones.
It smiled, and Piper shivered.

“You’ll  do  what  you’re  told,”  the  giant  said.  “You’ll  go  on  the  quest.

Do our bidding, and you may walk away alive. Otherwise—”

He  gestured  to  one  side  of  the  fire.  Piper’s  father  was  hanging

unconscious, tied to a stake.

She  tried  to  cry  out.  She  wanted  to  call  to  her  dad,  and  demand  the

giant let him go, but her voice wouldn’t work.

“I’ll  be  watching,”  the  giant  said.  “Serve  me,  and  you  both  live.  You
have  the  word  of  Enceladus.  Fail  me  …  well,  I’ve  slept  for  millennia,
young demigod. I am very hungry. Fail, and I’ll eat well.”

The giant roared with laughter. The earth trembled. A crevice opened

at Piper’s feet, and she tumbled into darkness.

She  woke  feeling  like  she’d  been  trampled  by  an  Irish  step-dancing
troupe.  Her  chest  hurt,  and  she  could  barely  breathe.  She  reached  down
and closed her hand around the hilt of the dagger Annabeth had given her
—Katoptris, Helen of Troy’s weapon.

So Camp Half-Blood hadn’t been a dream.
“How are you feeling?” someone asked.
Piper tried to focus. She was lying in a bed with a white curtain on one
side, like in a nurse’s office. That redheaded girl, Rachel Dare, sat next to
her. On the  wall  was  a poster of a cartoon satyr who looked  disturbingly
like  Coach  Hedge  with  a  thermometer  sticking  out  of  his  mouth.  The
caption read: Don’t let sickness get your goat!

“Where—” Piper’s voice died when she saw the guy at the door.
He  looked  like  a  typical  California  surfer  dude—buff  and  tan,  blond
hair, dressed in shorts and a T-shirt. But he had hundreds of blue eyes all
over his body—along his arms, down his legs, and all over his face. Even
his feet had eyes, peering up at her from between the straps of his sandals.
“That’s  Argus,”  Rachel  said,  “our  head  of  security.  He’s  just  keeping

an eye on things … so to speak.”

Argus nodded. The eye on his chin winked.

“Where—?” Piper tried again, but she felt like she was talking through

a mouthful of cotton.

“You’re  in  the  Big  House,”  Rachel  said.  “Camp  offices.  We  brought

you here when you collapsed.”

“You grabbed me,” Piper remembered. “Hera’s voice—”
“I’m so sorry about that,” Rachel said. “Believe me, it was not my idea

to get possessed. Chiron healed you with some nectar—”

“Nectar?”
“The  drink  of  the  gods.  In  small  amounts,  it  heals  demigods,  if  it

doesn’t—ah—burn you to ashes.”

“Oh. Fun.”
Rachel sat forward. “Do you remember your vision?”
Piper had a moment of dread, thinking she meant the dream about the
giant. Then she realized Rachel was talking about what happened in Hera’s
cabin.

“Something’s  wrong  with  the  goddess,”  Piper  said.  “She  told  me  to
free her, like she’s trapped. She mentioned the earth swallowing us, and a
fiery one, and something about the solstice.”

In the corner, Argus made a rumbling sound in his chest. His eyes all

fluttered at once.

“Hera created Argus,” Rachel explained. “He’s actually very sensitive
when it comes to her safety. We’re trying to keep him from crying, because
last time that happened …well, it caused quite a flood.”

Argus sniffled. He grabbed a fistful of Kleenex from the bedside table

and started dabbing eyes all over his body.

“So  …”  Piper  tried  not  to  stare  as  Argus  wiped  the  tears  from  his

elbows. “What’s happened to Hera?”

“We’re not sure,” Rachel said. “Annabeth and Jason were here for you,
by  the  way.  Jason  didn’t  want  to  leave  you,  but  Annabeth  had  an  idea—
something that might restore his memories.”

“That’s … that’s great.”
Jason had been here for her? She wished she’d been conscious for that.
But if he got his memories back, would that be a good thing? She was still

holding  out  hope  that  they  really  did  know  each  other.  She  didn’t  want
their relationship to be just a trick of the Mist.

Get  over  yourself,  she  thought.  If  she  was  going  to  save  her  dad,  it
didn’t matter whether Jason liked her or not. He would hate her eventually.
Everyone here would.

She  looked  down  at  the  ceremonial  dagger  strapped  to  her  side.
Annabeth had said it was a sign of power and status, but not normally used
in battle. All show and no substance. A fake, just like Piper. And its name
was  Katoptris,  looking  glass.  She  didn’t  dare  unsheathe  it  again,  because
she couldn’t bear to see her own reflection.

“Don’t  worry.”  Rachel  squeezed  her  arm.  “Jason  seems  like  a  good
guy. He had a vision too, a lot like yours. Whatever’s happening with Hera
—I think you two are meant to work together.”

Rachel smiled like this was good news, but Piper’s spirits plunged even
further.  She’d  thought  that  this  quest—whatever  it  was—would  involve
nameless  people.  Now  Rachel  was  basically  telling  her:  Good news! Not
only  is  your  dad  being  held  ransom  by  a  cannibal  giant,  you  also  get  to
betray the guy you like! How awesome is that?

“Hey,” Rachel said. “No need to cry. You’ll figure it out.”
Piper wiped her eyes, trying to get control of herself. This wasn’t like
her.  She  was  supposed  to  be  tough—a  hardened  car  thief,  the  scourge  of
L.A.  private  schools.  Here  she  was,  crying  like  a  baby.  “How  can  you
know what I’m facing?”

Rachel  shrugged.  “I  know  it’s  a  hard  choice,  and  your  options  aren’t

great. Like I said, I get hunches sometimes.

But you’re going to be claimed at the campfire. I’m almost sure. When

you know who your godly parent is, things might be clearer.”

Clearer, Piper thought. Not necessarily better.
She sat up in bed. Her forehead ached like someone had driven a spike
between her eyes. There’s  no  getting  your  mother  back,  her  dad  had  told
her. But apparently, tonight, her mom might claim her. For the first time,
Piper wasn’t sure she wanted that.

“I hope it’s Athena.” She looked up, afraid Rachel might make fun of

her, but the oracle just smiled.

“Piper, I don’t blame you. Truthfully? I think Annabeth is hoping that

too. You guys are a lot alike.”

The  comparison  made  Piper  feel  even  guiltier.  “Another  hunch?  You

don’t know anything about me.”

“You’d be surprised.”
“You’re  just saying  that because  you’re  an oracle, aren’t you? You’re

supposed to sound all mysterious.”

Rachel  laughed.  “Don’t  be  giving  away  my  secrets,  Piper.  And  don’t

worry. Things will work out—just maybe not the way you plan.”

“That’s not making me feel better.”
Somewhere  in  the  distance,  a  conch  horn  blew.  Argus  grumbled  and

opened the door.

“Dinner?” Piper guessed.
“You  slept  through  it,”  Rachel  said.  “Time  for  the  campfire.  Let’s  go

find out who you are.”

THE WHOLE CAMPFIRE IDEA FREAKED PIPER OUT. It made her think of that
huge purple bonfire in the dreams, and her father tied to a stake.

What  she  got  instead  was  almost  as  terrifying:  a  sing-along.  The
amphitheater steps were carved into the side of a hill, facing a stone-lined
fire  pit.  Fifty  or  sixty  kids  filled  the  rows,  clustered  into  groups  under
various banners.

Piper  spotted  Jason  in  the  front  next  to  Annabeth.  Leo  was  nearby,
sitting  with  a  bunch  of  burly-looking  campers  under  a  steel  gray  banner
emblazoned  with  a  hammer.  Standing  in  front  of  the  fire,  half  a  dozen
campers  with  guitars  and  strange,  old-fashioned  harps—lyres?—were
jumping  around,  leading  a  song  about  pieces  of  armor,  something  about
how their grandma got dressed for war. Everybody was singing with them
and  making  gestures  for  the  pieces  of  armor  and  joking  around.  It  was
quite  possibly  the  weirdest  thing  Piper  had  ever  seen—one  of  those
campfire  songs  that  would’ve  been  completely  embarrassing  in  daylight;
but in the dark, with everybody participating, it was kind of corny and fun.
As  the  energy  level  got  higher,  the  flames  did  too,  turning  from  red  to
orange to gold.

Finally the song ended with a lot of rowdy applause. A guy on a horse
trotted up. At least in the flickering light, Piper thought it was a guy on a
horse. Then she realized it was a centaur—his bottom half a white stallion,
his  top  half  a  middle-aged  guy  with  curly  hair  and  a  trimmed  beard.  He
brandished a spear impaled with toasted marshmallows. “Very nice! And a
special welcome to our new arrivals. I am Chiron, camp activities director,
and I’m happy you have all arrived here alive and with most of your limbs
attached. In a moment, I promise we’ll get to the s’mores, but first—”

“What about capture the flag?” somebody yelled. Grumbling broke out
among some kids in armor, sitting under a red banner with the emblem of a
boar’s head.

“Yes,” the centaur said. “I know the Ares cabin is anxious to return to

the woods for our regular games.”

“And kill people!” one of them shouted.
“However,”  Chiron  said,  “until  the  dragon  is  brought  under  control,

that won’t be possible. Cabin Nine, anything to report on that?”

He  turned  to  Leo’s  group.  Leo  winked  at  Piper  and  shot  her  with  a
finger  gun.  The  girl  next  to  him  stood  uncomfortably.  She  wore  an  army
jacket  a  lot  like  Leo’s,  with  her  hair  covered  in  a  red  bandanna.  “We’re
working on it.”

More grumbling.
“How, Nyssa?” an Ares kid demanded.
“Really hard,” the girl said.
Nyssa sat down to a lot of yelling and complaining, which caused the
fire  to  sputter  chaotically.  Chiron  stamped  his  hoof  against  the  fire  pit
stones—bang, bang, bang—and the campers fell silent.

“We will have to be patient,” Chiron said. “In the meantime, we have

more pressing matters to discuss.”

“Percy?”  someone  asked.  The  fire  dimmed  even  further,  but  Piper

didn’t need the mood flames to sense the crowd’s anxiety.

Chiron gestured to Annabeth. She took a deep breath and stood.
“I  didn’t  find  Percy,”  she  announced.  Her  voice  caught  a  little  when
she  said  his  name.  “He  wasn’t  at  the  Grand  Canyon  like  I  thought.  But
we’re  not  giving  up.  We’ve  got  teams  everywhere.  Grover,  Tyson,  Nico,
the  Hunters  of  Artemis  —everyone’s  out  looking.  We  will  find  him.
Chiron’s talking about something different. A new quest.”
“It’s the Great Prophecy, isn’t it?” a girl called out.
Everyone  turned.  The  voice  had  come  from  a  group  in  back,  sitting
under  a  rose-colored  banner  with  a  dove  emblem.  They’d  been  chatting
among  themselves  and  not  paying  much  attention  until  their  leader  stood
up: Drew.

Everyone  else  looked  surprised.  Apparently  Drew  didn’t  address  the

crowd very often.

“Drew?” Annabeth said. “What do you mean?”

“Well, come  on.”  Drew  spread  her  hands  like  the  truth  was  obvious.
“Olympus is closed. Percy’s disappeared. Hera sends you a vision and you
come back with three new demigods in one day. I mean, something weird
is going on. The Great Prophecy has started, right?”

Piper  whispered  to  Rachel,  “What’s  she  talking  about—the  Great

Prophecy?”

Then she realized everyone else was looking at Rachel, too.
“Well?” Drew called down. “You’re the oracle. Has it started or not?”
Rachel’s eyes looked scary in the firelight. Piper was afraid she might
clench  up  and  start  channeling  a  freaky  peacock  goddess  again,  but  she
stepped forward calmly and addressed the camp.

“Yes,” she said. “The Great Prophecy has begun.”
Pandemonium broke out.
Piper caught Jason’s eye. He mouthed, You all right? She nodded and
managed a smile, but then looked away. It was too painful seeing him and
not being with him.

When the talking finally subsided, Rachel took another step toward the
audience, and fifty-plus demigods leaned away from her, as if one skinny
redheaded mortal was more intimidating than all of them put together.

“For  those  of  you  who  have  not  heard  it,”  Rachel  said,  “the  Great

Prophecy was my first prediction. It arrived in August. It goes like this:

“Seven  half-bloods  shall  answer  the  call.  To  storm  or  fire  the  world

must fall—”

Jason shot to his feet. His eyes looked wild, like he’d just been tasered.

Even Rachel seemed caught off guard. “J-Jason?” she said. “What’s—”
“Ut  cum  spiritu  postrema  sacramentum  dejuremus,”  he  chanted.  “Et

hostes ornamenta addent ad ianuam necem.”

An uneasy silence settled on the group. Piper could see from their faces
that several of them were trying to translate the lines. She could tell it was
Latin,  but  she  wasn’t  sure  why  her  hopefully  future  boyfriend  was
suddenly chanting like a Catholic priest.

“You just … finished the prophecy,” Rachel stammered. “—An oath to
keep with a final breath/And foes bear arms to the Doors of Death.  How

did you—”

“I know those lines.” Jason winced and put his hands to his temples. “I

don’t know how, but I know that prophecy.”

“In Latin, no less,” Drew called out. “Handsome and smart.”
There was some giggling from the Aphrodite cabin. God, what a bunch
of  losers,  Piper  thought.  But  it  didn’t  do  much  to  break  the  tension.  The
campfire was burning a chaotic, nervous shade of green.

Jason sat down, looking embarrassed, but Annabeth put a hand on his
shoulder and muttered something reassuring. Piper felt a pang of jealousy.
It should have been her next to him, comforting him.

Rachel Dare still looked a little shaken. She glanced back at Chiron for
guidance, but the centaur stood grim and silent, as if he were watching a
play he couldn’t interrupt—a tragedy that ended with a lot of people dead
onstage.

“Well,” Rachel said, trying to regain her composure. “So, yeah, that’s
the Great Prophecy. We hoped it might not happen for years, but I fear it’s
starting now. I can’t give you proof. It’s just a feeling. And like Drew said,
some  weird  stuff  is  happening.  The  seven  demigods,  whoever  they  are,
have not been gathered yet. I get the feeling some are here tonight. Some
are not here.”

The campers began to stir and mutter, looking at each other nervously,
until a drowsy voice in the crowd called out, “I’m here! Oh … were you
calling roll?”

“Go  back  to  sleep,  Clovis,”  someone  yelled,  and  a  lot  of  people

laughed.

“Anyway,”  Rachel  continued,  “we  don’t  know  what  the  Great
Prophecy  means.  We  don’t  know  what  challenge  the  demigods  will  face,
but  since  the first Great  Prophecy  predicted  the  Titan  War,  we  can  guess
the second Great Prophecy will predict something at least that bad.”

“Or worse,” Chiron murmured.
Maybe  he  didn’t  mean  everyone  to  overhear,  but  they  did.  The
campfire immediately turned dark purple, the same color as Piper’s dream.
“What we do know,” Rachel said, “is that the first phase has begun. A
major problem has arisen, and we need a quest to solve it. Hera, the queen
of the gods, has been taken.”

Shocked silence. Then fifty demigods started talking at once.
Chiron pounded his hoof again, but Rachel still had to wait before she

could get back their attention.

She told them about the incident on the Grand Canyon skywalk—how
Gleeson Hedge had sacrificed himself when the storm spirits attacked, and
the  spirits had warned  it was  only  the  beginning. They apparently  served
some great mistress who would destroy all demigods.

Then Rachel told them about Piper passing out in Hera’s cabin. Piper
tried to keep a calm expression, even when she noticed Drew in the back
row,  pantomiming  a  faint,  and  her  friends  giggling.  Finally  Rachel  told
them  about  Jason’s  vision  in  the  living  room  of  the  Big  House.  The
message Hera had delivered there was so similar that Piper got a chill. The
only difference: Hera had warned Piper not to betray her: Bow to his will,
and  their  king  shall  rise,  dooming  us  all.  Hera  knew  about  the  giant’s
threat.  But  if  that  was  true,  why  hadn’t  she  warned  Jason,  and  exposed
Piper as an enemy agent?

“Jason,” Rachel said. “Um … do you remember your last name?”
He looked self-conscious, but he shook his head.
“We’ll just call you Jason, then,” Rachel said. “It’s clear Hera herself

has issued you a quest.”

Rachel  paused,  as  if  giving  Jason  a  chance  to  protest  his  destiny.
Everyone’s eyes were on him; there was so much pressure, Piper thought
she would’ve buckled in his position. Yet he looked brave and determined.
He set his jaw and nodded. “I agree.”

“You must save Hera to prevent a great evil,” Rachel continued. “Some
sort  of  king  from  rising.  For  reasons  we  don’t  yet  understand,  it  must
happen by the winter solstice, only four days from now.”

“That’s the council day of the gods,” Annabeth said. “If the gods don’t
already know Hera’s gone, they will definitely notice her absence by then.
They’ll  probably  break  out  fighting,  accusing  each  other  of  taking  her.
That’s what they usually do.”

“The  winter  solstice,”  Chiron  spoke  up,  “is  also  the  time  of  greatest
darkness. The gods gather that day, as mortals always have, because there
is  strength  in  numbers.  The  solstice  is  a  day  when  evil  magic  is  strong.
Ancient magic, older than the gods. It is a day when things … stir.”

The way he said it, stirring sounded absolutely sinister—like it should

be a first-degree felony, not something you did to cookie dough.

“Okay,”  Annabeth  said,  glaring  at  the  centaur.  “Thank  you,  Captain
Sunshine.  Whatever’s  going  on,  I  agree  with  Rachel.  Jason  has  been
chosen to lead this quest, so—”

“Why hasn’t he been claimed?” somebody yelled from the Ares cabin.

“If he’s so important—”

“He  has  been  claimed,”  Chiron  announced.  “Long  ago.  Jason,  give

them a demonstration.”

At  first,  Jason  didn’t  seem  to  understand.  He  stepped  forward
nervously,  but  Piper  couldn’t  help  thinking  how  amazing  he  looked  with
his  blond  hair  glowing  in  the  firelight,  his  regal  features  like  a  Roman
statue’s.  He  glanced  at  Piper,  and  she  nodded  encouragingly.  She
mimicked flipping a coin.

Jason reached into his pocket. His coin flashed in the air, and when he
caught it in his hand, he was holding a lance—a rod of gold about seven
feet long, with a spear tip at one end.

The  other  demigods  gasped.  Rachel  and  Annabeth  stepped  back  to

avoid the point, which looked sharp as an ice pick.

“Wasn’t that …” Annabeth hesitated. “I thought you had a sword.”
“Um,  it  came  up  tails,  I  think,”  Jason  said.  “Same  coin,  long-range

weapon form.”

“Dude, I want one!” yelled somebody from Ares cabin.
“Better  than  Clarisse’s  electric  spear,  Lamer!”  one  of  his  brothers

agreed.

“Electric,” Jason murmured, like that was a good idea. “Back away.”
Annabeth  and  Rachel  got  the  message.  Jason  raised  his  javelin,  and
thunder broke open the sky. Every hair on Piper’s arms stood straight up.
Lightning arced down through the golden spear point and hit the campfire
with the force of an artillery shell.

When the smoke cleared, and the ringing in Piper’s ears subsided, the
entire camp sat frozen in shock, half blind, covered in ashes, staring at the
place where the fire had been. Cinders rained down everywhere. A burning
log  had  impaled  itself  a  few  inches  from  the  sleeping  kid  Clovis,  who
hadn’t even stirred.

Jason lowered his lance. “Um … sorry.”
Chiron brushed some burning coals out of his beard. He grimaced as if
his worst fears had been confirmed. “A little overkill, perhaps, but you’ve
made your point. And I believe we know who your father is.”
“Jupiter,” Jason said. “I mean Zeus. Lord of the Sky.”
Piper couldn’t help smiling. It made perfect sense. The most powerful
god, the father of all the greatest heroes in the ancient myths—no one else
could possibly be Jason’s dad.

Apparently, the rest of the camp wasn’t so sure. Everything broke into
chaos,  with  dozens  of  people  asking  questions  until  Annabeth  raised  her
arms.

“Hold it!” she said. “How can he be the son of Zeus? The Big Three …
their pact not to have mortal kids … how could we not have known about
him sooner?”

Chiron didn’t answer, but Piper got the feeling he knew. And the truth

was not good.

“The important thing,” Rachel said, “is that Jason’s here now. He has a

quest to fulfill, which means he will need his own prophecy.”

She  closed  her  eyes  and  swooned.  Two  campers  rushed  forward  and
caught  her.  A  third  ran  to  the  side  of  the  amphitheater  and  grabbed  a
bronze  three-legged  stool,  like  they’d  been  trained  for  this  duty.  They
eased Rachel onto the stool in front of the ruined hearth. Without the fire,
the  night  was  dark,  but  green  mist  started  swirling  around  Rachel’s  feet.
When  she  opened  her  eyes,  they  were  glowing.  Emerald  smoke  issued
from  her  mouth.  The  voice  that  came  out  was  raspy  and  ancient—the
sound a snake would make if it could talk:

“Child  of  lightning,  beware  the  earth,  The  giants’  revenge  the  seven
shall  birth,  The  forge  and  dove  shall  break  the  cage,  And  death  unleash
through Hera’s rage.”

On the last word, Rachel collapsed, but her helpers were waiting to catch
her.  They  carried  her  away  from  the  hearth  and  laid  her  in  the  corner  to
rest.

“Is that normal?” Piper asked. Then she realized she’d spoken into the
silence, and everyone was looking at her. “I mean… does she spew green

smoke a lot?”

“Gods,  you’re  dense!”  Drew  sneered.  “She  just  issued  a  prophecy—

Jason’s prophecy to save Hera! Why don’t you just—”

“Drew,”  Annabeth  snapped.  “Piper  asked  a  fair  question.  Something
about  that  prophecy  definitely  isn’t  normal.  If  breaking  Hera’s  cage
unleashes her rage and causes a bunch of death … why would we free her?
It  might  be  a  trap,  or—or  maybe  Hera  will  turn  on  her  rescuers.  She’s
never been kind to heroes.”

Jason rose. “I don’t have much choice. Hera took my memory. I need it
back. Besides, we can’t just not help the queen of the heavens if she’s in
trouble.”

A  girl  from  Hephaestus  cabin  stood  up—Nyssa,  the  one  with  the  red
bandanna.  “Maybe.  But  you  should  listen  to  Annabeth.  Hera  can  be
vengeful.  She  threw  her  own  son—our  dad—down  a  mountain  just
because he was ugly.”

“Real ugly,” snickered someone from Aphrodite.
“Shut  up!”  Nyssa  growled.  “Anyway,  we’ve  also  got  to  think  —why
beware  the  earth?  And  what’s  the  giants’  revenge?  What  are  we  dealing
with here that’s powerful enough to kidnap the queen of the heavens?”

No  one  answered,  but  Piper  noticed  Annabeth  and  Chiron  having  a

silent exchange. Piper thought it went something like:
Annabeth: The giants’ revenge … no, it can’t be.
Chiron: Don’t speak of it here. Don’t scare them.
Annabeth: You’re kidding me! We can’t be that unlucky.
Chiron:  Later,  child.  If  you  told  them  everything,  they  would  be  too

terrified to proceed.

Piper  knew  it  was  crazy  to  think  she  could  read  their  expressions  so
well—two  people  she  barely  knew.  But  she  was  absolutely  positive  she
understood them, and it scared the jujubes out of her.

Annabeth took a deep breath. “It’s Jason’s quest,” she announced, “so
it’s  Jason’s  choice.  Obviously,  he’s  the  child  of  lightning.  According  to
tradition, he may choose any two companions.”

Someone  from  the  Hermes  cabin  yelled,  “Well,  you,  obviously,

Annabeth. You’ve got the most experience.”

“No,  Travis,”  Annabeth  said.  “First  off,  I’m  not helping  Hera.  Every
time  I’ve  tried,  she’s  deceived  me,  or  it’s  come  back  to  bite  me  later.
Forget it. No way. Secondly, I’m leaving first thing in the morning to find
Percy.”

“It’s connected,” Piper blurted out, not sure how she got the courage.
“You  know  that’s  true,  don’t  you?  This  whole  business,  your  boyfriend’s
disappearance—it’s all connected.”

“How?” demanded Drew. “If you’re so smart, how?”
Piper tried to form an answer, but she couldn’t.
Annabeth saved her. “You may be right, Piper. If this is connected, I’ll
find  out  from  the  other  end—by  searching  for  Percy.  As  I  said,  I’m  not
about to rush off to rescue Hera, even if her disappearance sets the rest of
the  Olympians  fighting  again.  But  there’s  another  reason  I  can’t  go.  The
prophecy says otherwise.”

“It says who I pick,” Jason agreed. “The forge and dove shall break the

cage. The forge is the symbol of Vul—Hephaestus.”

Under  the  Cabin  Nine  banner,  Nyssa’s  shoulders  slumped,  like  she’d
just been given a heavy anvil to carry. “If you have to beware the earth,”
she said, “you should avoid traveling overland. You’ll need air transport.”

Piper was about to call out that Jason could fly. But then she thought
better of it. That was for Jason to tell them, and he wasn’t volunteering the
information.  Maybe  he  figured  he’d  freaked  them  out  enough  for  one
night.

“The flying chariot’s broken,” Nyssa continued, “and the pegasi, we’re
using  them  to  search  for  Percy.  But  maybe  Hephaestus  cabin  can  help
figure  out  something  else  to  help.  With  Jake  incapacitated,  I’m  senior
camper. I can volunteer for the quest.”
She didn’t sound enthusiastic.
Then Leo stood up. He’d been so quiet, Piper had almost forgotten he

was there, which was totally not like Leo.

“It’s me,” he said.
His  cabinmates  stirred.  Several  tried  to  pull  him  back  to  his  seat,  but

Leo resisted.

“No,  it’s  me.  I  know  it  is.  I’ve  got  an  idea  for  the  transportation

problem. Let me try. I can fix this!”

Jason  studied  him  for  a  moment.  Piper  was  sure  he  was  going  to  tell
Leo no. Then he smiled. “We started this together, Leo. Seems only right
you come along. You find us a ride, you’re in.”

“Yes!” Leo pumped his fist.
“It’ll be dangerous,” Nyssa warned him. “Hardship, monsters, terrible

suffering. Possibly none of you will come back alive.”

“Oh.”  Suddenly  Leo  didn’t  look  so  excited.  Then  he  remembered
everyone was watching. “I mean … Oh, cool! Suffering? I love suffering!
Let’s do this.”

Annabeth  nodded.  “Then,  Jason,  you  only  need  to  choose  the  third

quest member. The dove—”

“Oh,  absolutely!”  Drew  was  on  her  feet  and  flashing  Jason  a  smile.

“The dove is Aphrodite. Everybody knows that. I am totally yours.”

Piper’s hands clenched. She stepped forward. “No.”
Drew rolled her eyes. “Oh, please, Dumpster girl. Back off.”
“I had the vision of Hera; not you. I have to do this.”
“Anyone  can  have  a  vision,”  Drew  said.  “You  were  just  at  the  right
place at the right time.” She turned to Jason. “Look, fighting is all fine, I
suppose. And people  who build things …” She looked  at  Leo  in  disdain.
“Well, I suppose someone has to get their hands dirty. But you need charm
on your side. I can be very persuasive. I could help a lot.”

The  campers  started  murmuring  about  how  Drew  was  pretty
persuasive.  Piper  could  see  Drew  winning  them  over.  Even  Chiron  was
scratching  his  beard,  like  Drew’s  participation  suddenly  made  sense  to
him.

“Well …” Annabeth said. “Given the wording of the prophecy—”
“No!” Piper’s own voice sounded strange in her ears—more insistent,

richer in tone. “I’m supposed to go.”
the  weirdest 

Then 

thing  happened.  Everyone  started  nodding,
muttering  that  hmm,  Piper’s  point  of  view  made  sense  too.  Drew  looked
around, incredulous. Even some of her own campers were nodding.
“Get over it!” Drew snapped at the crowd. “What can Piper do?”
Piper tried to respond, but her confidence started to wane. What could
she offer? She wasn’t a fighter, or a planner, or a fixer. She had no skills

except getting into trouble and occasionally convincing people to do stupid
things.

Plus,  she  was  a  liar.  She  needed  to  go  on  this  quest  for  reasons  that
went  way  beyond  Jason—and  if  she  did  go,  she’d  end  up  betraying
everyone there. She heard that voice from the dream: Do our bidding, and
you  may  walk  away  alive.  How  could  she  make  a  choice  like  that—
between helping her father and helping Jason?

“Well,” Drew said smugly, “I guess that settles it.”
Suddenly there was collective gasp. Everyone stared at Piper like she’d
just  exploded.  She  wondered  what  she’d  done  wrong.  Then  she  realized
there was a reddish glow around her.

“What?” she demanded.
She  looked  above  her,  but  there  was  no  burning  symbol  like  the  one

that appeared over Leo. Then she looked down and yelped.

Her  clothes  …  what  in  the  world  was  she  wearing?  She  despised
dresses.  She didn’t own a  dress.  But  now  she  was  adorned  in  a  beautiful
white sleeveless gown that went down to her ankles, with a V-neck so low
it was totally embarrassing. Delicate gold armbands circled her biceps. An
intricate necklace of amber, coral, and gold flowers glittered on her chest,
and her hair …

“Oh, god,” she said. “What’s happened?”
A  stunned  Annabeth  pointed  at  Piper’s  dagger,  which  was  now  oiled
and gleaming, hanging at her side on a golden cord. Piper didn’t want to
draw it. She was afraid of what she would see. But her curiosity won out.
She unsheathed Katoptris and stared at her reflection in the polished metal
blade.  Her  hair  was  perfect:  lush  and  long  and  chocolate  brown,  braided
with  gold  ribbons  down  one  side  so  it  fell  across  her  shoulder.  She  even
wore  makeup,  better  than  Piper  would  ever  know  how  to  do  herself—
subtle  touches  that  made  her  lips  cherry  red  and  brought  out  all  the
different colors in her eyes.
She was...she was...
“Beautiful,” Jason exclaimed. “Piper, you … you’re a knockout.”
Under  different  circumstances,  that  would’ve  been  the  happiest
moment  of  her  life.  But  now  everyone  was  staring  at  her  like  she  was  a

freak. Drew’s face was full of horror and revulsion. “No!” she cried. “Not
possible!”

“This isn’t me,” Piper protested. “I—don’t understand.”
Chiron the centaur folded his front legs and bowed to her, and all the

campers followed his example.

“Hail,  Piper  McLean,”  Chiron  announced  gravely,  as  if  he  were
speaking  at  her  funeral.  “Daughter  of  Aphrodite,  lady  of  the  doves,
goddess of love.”

LEO  DIDN’T  STICK  AROUND  AFTER  PIPER  turned  beautiful.  Sure,  it  was
amazing  and  all—She’s  got  makeup!  It’s  a  miracle!  —but  Leo  had
problems to deal with. He ducked out of the amphitheater and ran into the
darkness, wondering what he’d gotten himself into.

He’d  stood  up  in  front  of  a  bunch  of  stronger,  braver  demigods  and
volunteered—volunteered—for  a  mission  that  would  probably  get  him
killed.

He hadn’t mentioned seeing Tía Callida, his old babysitter, but as soon
as he’d heard about Jason’s vision—the lady in the black dress and shawl
—Leo  knew  it  was  the  same  woman.  Tía  Callida  was  Hera.  His  evil
babysitter was the queen of the gods. Stuff like that could really deep-fry
your brain.

He trudged toward the woods and tried not to think about his childhood
—all  the  messed-up  things  that  had  led  to  his  mother’s  death.  But  he
couldn’t help it.

* * *

The first time Tía Callida tried to kill him, he must’ve been about two. Tía
Callida was looking after him while his mother was at the machine shop.
She  wasn’t  really  his  aunt,  of  course—just  one  of  the  old  women  in  the
community,  a  generic  tía who  helped  watch  the  kids.  She  smelled  like  a
honey-baked ham, and always wore a widow’s dress with a black shawl.

“Let’s set you down for a nap,” she said. “Let’s see if you are my brave

little hero, eh?”

Leo was sleepy. She nestled him into his blankets in a warm mound of
red and yellow—pillows? The bed was like a cubbyhole in the wall, made
of blackened bricks, with a metal slot over his head and a square hole far

above, where he could see the stars. He remembered resting comfortably,
grabbing at sparks like fireflies. He dozed, and dreamed of a boat made of
fire, sailing through the cinders. He imagined himself on board, navigating
the  sky.  Somewhere  nearby,  Tía  Callida  sat  in  her  rocking  chair—creak,
creak, creak—and  sang  a  lullaby.  Even  at  two,  Leo  knew  the  difference
between English and Spanish, and he remembered being puzzled because
Tía Callida was singing in a language that was neither.

Everything  was  fine  until  his  mother  came  home.  She  screamed  and
raced over to snatch him up, yelling at Tía Callida, “How could you?” But
the old lady had disappeared.

Leo  remembered  looking  over  his  mother’s  shoulder  at  the  flames
curling  around  his  blankets.  Only  years  later  had  he  realized  he’d  been
sleeping in a blazing fireplace.

The weirdest thing? Tía Callida hadn’t been arrested or even banished
from  their  house.  She  appeared  again  several  times  over  the  next  few
years. Once when Leo was three, she let him play with knives. “You must
learn your blades early,” she insisted, “if you are to be my hero someday.”
Leo  managed  not  to  kill  himself,  but  he  got  the  feeling  Tía  Callida
wouldn’t have cared one way or the other.

When Leo was four, Tía found a rattlesnake for him in a nearby cow
pasture.  She  gave  him  a  stick  and  encouraged  him  to  poke  the  animal.
“Where  is  your  bravery,  little  hero?  Show  me  the  Fates  were  right  to
choose  you.”  Leo  stared  down  at  those  amber  eyes,  hearing  the  dry  shh-
shh-ssh of the snake’s rattle. He couldn’t bring himself to poke the snake.
It didn’t seem fair. Apparently the snake felt the same way about biting a
little kid.  Leo could’ve sworn  it looked  at  Tía  Callida  like, Are you nuts,
lady? Then it disappeared into the tall grass.

The last time she babysat him, Leo was five. She brought him a pack of
crayons and a pad of paper. They sat together at the picnic table in back of
the  apartment  complex,  under  an  old  pecan  tree.  While  Tía  Callida  sang
her strange songs, Leo drew a picture of the boat he’d seen in the flames,
with  colorful  sails  and  rows  of  oars,  a  curved  stern,  and  an  awesome
masthead. When he was almost done, about to sign his name the way he’d
learned in kindergarten, a wind snatched the picture away. It flew into the
sky and disappeared.

Leo wanted to cry. He’d spent so much time on that picture—but Tía

Callida just clucked with disappointment.

“It isn’t time yet, little hero. Someday, you’ll have your quest. You’ll
find your destiny, and your hard journey will finally make sense. But first
you must face many sorrows. I regret that, but heroes cannot be shaped any
other way. Now, make me a fire, eh? Warm these old bones.”

A  few  minutes  later,  Leo’s  mom  came  out  and  shrieked  with  horror.
Tía Callida was gone, but Leo sat in the middle of a smoking fire. The pad
of paper was reduced to ashes. Crayons had melted into a bubbling puddle
of multicolored goo, and Leo’s hands were ablaze, slowly burning through
the  picnic  table.  For  years  afterward,  people  in  the  apartment  complex
would  wonder  how  someone  had  seared  the  impressions  of  a  five-year-
old’s hands an inch deep into solid wood.

Now Leo was sure that Tía Callida, his psychotic babysitter, had been Hera
all  along.  That  made  her,  what—his  godly  grandmother?  His  family  was
even more messed up than he realized.

He wondered if his mother had known the truth. Leo remembered after
that last visit, his mom took him inside and had a long talk with him, but
he only understood some of it.

“She can’t come back again.” His mom had a beautiful face with kind
eyes,  and  curly  dark  hair,  but  she  looked  older  than  she  was  because  of
hard work. The lines around her eyes were deeply etched. Her hands were
callused.  She  was  the  first  person  from  their  family  to  graduate  from
college.  She  had  a  degree  in  mechanical  engineering  and  could  design
anything, fix anything, build anything.

No one would hire her. No company would take her seriously, so she
ended up in the machine shop, trying to make enough money to support the
two of them. She always smelled of machine oil, and when she talked with
Leo,  she  switched  from  Spanish  to  English  constantly—using  them  like
complementary tools. It took Leo years to realize that not everyone spoke
that  way.  She’d  even  taught  him  Morse  code  as  a  kind  of  game,  so  they
could tap messages to each other when they were in different rooms: I love
you. You okay? Simple things like that.

“I don’t care what Callida says,” his mom told him. “I don’t care about

destiny and the Fates. You’re too young for that. You’re still my baby.”

She took his hands, looking for burn marks, but of course there weren’t
any.  “Leo,  listen  to  me.  Fire  is  a  tool,  like  anything  else,  but  it’s  more
dangerous than most. You don’t know your limits. Please, promise me—no
more  fire  until  you  meet  your  father.  Someday,  mijo, you will meet  him.
He’ll explain everything.”

Leo had heard that since he could remember. Someday he would meet
his  dad.  His  mom  wouldn’t  answer  any  questions  about  him.  Leo  had
never met him, never even seen pictures, but she talked like he’d just gone
to  the  store  for  some  milk  and  he’d  be  back  any  minute.  Leo  tried  to
believe her. Someday, everything would make sense.

For the next couple of years, they were happy. Leo almost forgot about
Tía  Callida.  He  still  dreamed  of  the  flying  boat,  but  the  other  strange
events seemed like a dream too.

It  all came  apart when  he was  eight. By  then,  he was  spending  every
free hour at the shop with his mom. He knew how to use the machines. He
could measure and do math better than most adults. He’d learned to think
three-dimensionally, solving mechanical problems in his head the way his
mom did.

One  night,  they  stayed  late  because  his  mom  was  finishing  a  drill  bit
design she hoped to patent. If she could sell the prototype, it might change
their lives. She’d finally get a break.

As  she  worked,  Leo  passed  her  supplies  and  told  her  corny  jokes,
trying  to  keep her spirits up. He  loved  it when  he could  make  her laugh.
She’d  smile  and  say,  “Your  father  would  be  proud  of  you,  mijo.  You’ll
meet him soon, I’m sure.”

Mom’s  workspace  was  at  the  very  back  of  the  shop.  It  was  kind  of
creepy  at  night,  because  they  were  the  only  ones  there.  Every  sound
echoed through the dark warehouse, but Leo didn’t mind as long as he was
with his mom. If he did wander the shop, they could always keep in touch
with  Morse  code  taps.  Whenever  they  were  ready  to  leave,  they  had  to
walk  through  the  entire  shop,  through  the  break  room,  and  out  to  the
parking lot, locking the doors behind them.

That night after finishing up, they’d just gotten to the break room when

his mom realized she didn’t have her keys.

“That’s funny.” She frowned. “I know I had them. Wait here, mijo. I’ll

only be a minute.”

She  gave  him  one  more  smile—the  last  one  he’d  ever  get  —and  she

went back into the warehouse.

She’d only been gone a few heartbeats when the interior door slammed

shut. Then the exterior door locked itself.

“Mom?”  Leo’s  heart  pounded.  Something  heavy  crashed  inside  the
warehouse. He ran to the door, but no matter how hard he pulled or kicked,
it  wouldn’t  open.  “Mom!”  Frantically,  he  tapped  a  message  on  the  wall:
You okay?

“She can’t hear you,” a voice said.
Leo  turned  and  found  himself  facing  a  strange  woman.  At  first  he
thought  it  was  Tía  Callida.  She  was  wrapped  in  black  robes,  with  a  veil
covering her face.
“Tía?” he said.
The woman chuckled, a slow gentle sound, as if she were half asleep.

“I am not your guardian. Merely a family resemblance.”
“What—what do you want? Where’s my mom?”
“Ah … loyal to your mother. How nice. But you see, I have children
too  …  and  I  understand  you  will  fight  them  someday.  When  they  try  to
wake me, you will prevent them. I cannot allow that.”
“I don’t know you. I don’t want to fight anybody.”
She muttered like a sleepwalker in a trance, “A wise choice.”
With a chill, Leo realized the woman was, in fact, asleep. Behind the
veil, her eyes were closed. But even stranger: her clothes were not made of
cloth.  They  were  made  of  earth—dry  black  dirt,  churning  and  shifting
around her. Her pale, sleeping face was barely visible behind a curtain of
dust, and he had the horrible sense that she’d had just risen from the grave.
If the woman was asleep, Leo wanted her to stay that way. He knew that
fully awake, she would be even more terrible.

“I cannot destroy you yet,” the woman murmured. “The Fates will not
allow  it.  But  they  not  do  protect  your  mother,  and  they  cannot  stop  me
from breaking your spirit. Remember this night, little hero, when they ask
you to oppose me.”

“Leave  my  mother  alone!”  Fear  rose  in  his  throat  as  the  woman
shuffled forward. She moved more like an avalanche than a person, a dark
wall of earth shifting toward him.

“How will you stop me?” she whispered.
She  walked  straight  through  a  table,  the  particles  of  her  body

reassembling on the other side.

She loomed over Leo, and he knew she would pass right through him,

too. He was the only thing between her and his mother.

His hands caught fire.
A  sleepy  smile  spread  across  the  woman’s  face,  as  if  she’d  already
won.  Leo  screamed  with  desperation.  His  vision  turned  red.  Flames
washed over the earthen woman, the walls, the locked doors. And Leo lost
consciousness.

When he woke, he was in an ambulance.
The paramedic tried to be kind. She told him the warehouse had burned
down. His mother  hadn’t made  it out.  The  paramedic  said  she was  sorry,
but Leo felt hollow. He’d lost control, just like his mother had warned. Her
death was his fault.

Soon the police came to get him, and they weren’t as nice. The fire had
started  in  the  break  room,  they  said,  right  where  Leo  was  standing.  He’d
survived by some miracle, but what kind of child locked the doors of his
mother’s workplace, knowing she was inside, and started a fire?

Later,  his  neighbors  at  the  apartment  complex  told  the  police  what  a
strange boy he was. They talked about the burned handprints on the picnic
table.  They’d  always  known  something  was  wrong  with  Esperanza
Valdez’s son.

His relatives wouldn’t take him in. His Aunt Rosa called him a diablo
and  shouted  at  the  social  workers  to  take  him  away.  So  Leo  went  to  his
first foster home. A few days later, he ran away. Some foster homes lasted
longer than others. He would joke around, make a few friends, pretend that
nothing bothered him, but  he always ended up running  sooner  or later.  It
was the only thing that made the pain better—feeling like he was moving,
getting farther and farther away from the ashes of that machine shop.

He’d promised himself he would never play with fire again. He hadn’t
thought  about  Tía  Callida,  or  the  sleeping  woman  wrapped  in  earthen
robes, for a long time.

He  was  almost  to  the  woods  when  he  imagined  Tía  Callida’s  voice:  It
wasn’t your fault, little hero. Our enemy wakes. It’s time to stop running.

“Hera,” Leo muttered, “you’re not even here, are you? You’re in a cage

somewhere.”

There was no answer.
But now, at least, Leo understood something. Hera had been watching
him  his  entire  life.  Somehow,  she’d  known  that  one  day  she  would  need
him.  Maybe  those  Fates  she  mentioned  could  tell  the  future.  Leo  wasn’t
sure.  But  he  knew  he  was  meant  to  go  on  this  quest.  Jason’s  prophecy
warned  them  to  beware  the  earth,  and  Leo  knew  it  had  something  to  do
with that sleeping woman in the shop, wrapped in robes of shifting dirt.

You’ll  find  your  destiny,  Tía  Callida  had  promised,  and  your  hard

journey will finally make sense.

Leo might find out what that flying boat in his dreams meant. He might

meet his father, or even get to avenge his mother’s death.

But first things first. He’d promised Jason a flying ride.
Not  the  boat  from  his  dreams—not  yet.  There  wasn’t  time  to  build
something  that  complicated.  He  needed  a  quicker  solution.  He  needed  a
dragon.

He hesitated at the edge of the woods, peering into absolute blackness.

Owls hooted, and something far away hissed like a chorus of snakes.

Leo remembered what Will Solace had told him: No one should go in
the woods alone, definitely not unarmed. Leo had nothing—no sword, no
flashlight, no help.

He glanced back at the lights of the cabins. He could turn around now
and  tell  everyone  he’d  been  joking.  Psych! Nyssa  could  go  on  the  quest
instead.  He  could  stay  at  camp  and  learn  to  be  part  of  the  Hephaestus
cabin,  but  he  wondered  how  long  it  would  be  before  he  looked  like  his
bunkmates—sad, dejected, convinced of his own bad luck.

They  cannot  stop  me  from  breaking  your  spirit,  the  sleeping  woman
had said. Remember this night, little hero, when they ask you to oppose me.
“Believe me, lady,” Leo muttered, “I remember. And whoever you are,

I’m gonna face-plant you hard, Leo-style.”

He took a deep breath and plunged into the forest.

THE  WOODS  WEREN’T  LIKE  ANYPLACE  he’d  been  before.  Leo  had  been
raised in a north Houston apartment complex. The wildest things he’d ever
seen  were  that  rattlesnake  in  the  cow  pasture  and  his  Aunt  Rosa  in  her
nightgown, until he was sent to Wilderness School.

Even  there,  the  school  had  been  in  the  desert.  No  trees  with  gnarled
roots to trip over. No streams to fall into. No branches casting dark, creepy
shadows and owls looking down at him with their big reflective eyes. This
was the Twilight Zone.

He  stumbled along  until  he was  sure  no one back at  the  cabins  could
possibly  see  him.  Then  he  summoned  fire.  Flames  danced  along  his
fingertips, casting enough light to see. He hadn’t tried to keep a sustained
burn going since he was five, at that picnic table. Since his mom’s death,
he’d  been  too  afraid  to  try  anything.  Even  this  tiny  fire  made  him  feel
guilty.

He  kept  walking,  looking  for  dragon-type  clues—giant  footprints,
trampled  trees,  swaths  of  burning  forest.  Something  that  big  couldn’t
exactly sneak around, right? But he saw nada. Once he glimpsed a large,
furry shape like a wolf or a bear, but it stayed away from his fire, which
was fine by Leo.

Then,  at  the  bottom  of  a  clearing,  he  saw  the  first  trap—a  hundred-

foot-wide crater ringed with boulders.

Leo  had  to  admit  it  was  pretty  ingenious.  In  the  center  of  the
depression,  a  metal  vat  the  size  of  a  hot  tub  had  been  filled  with  bubbly
dark liquid—Tabasco  sauce  and motor  oil. On a pedestal  suspended  over
the  vat,  an electric  fan rotated  in  a circle,  spreading the  fumes across  the
forest. Could metal dragons smell?

The  vat  seemed  to  be  unguarded.  But  Leo  looked  closely,  and  in  the
dim light of the stars and his handheld fire, he could see the glint of metal

beneath the dirt and leaves—a bronze net lining the entire crater. Or maybe
see wasn’t  the  right  word—he  could  sense  it  there,  as  if  the  mechanism
was  emitting  heat,  revealing  itself  to  him.  Six  large  strips  of  bronze
stretched  out  from  the  vat  like  the  spokes  of  a  wheel.  They  would  be
pressure sensitive, Leo guessed. As soon as the dragon stepped on one, the
net would spring closed, and voilà—one gift-wrapped monster.

Leo  edged  closer.  He  put  his  foot  on  the  nearest  trigger  strip.  As  he
expected,  nothing  happened.  They  had  to  have  set  the  net  for  something
really  heavy.  Otherwise  they  could  catch  an  animal,  human,  smaller
monster, whatever. He doubted there was anything else as heavy as a metal
dragon in these woods. At least, he hoped there wasn’t.

He picked his way down the crater and approached the vat. The fumes
were almost overpowering, and his eyes started watering. He remembered
a time when Tía Callida (Hera, whatever) had made him chop jalapeños in
the  kitchen  and  he’d  gotten  the  juice  in  his  eyes.  Serious  pain.  But  of
course she’d been like, “Endure it, little hero. The Aztecs of your mother’s
homeland  used  to  punish  bad  children  by  holding  them  over  a  fire  filled
with chili peppers. They raised many heroes that way.”

A total psycho, that lady. Leo was so glad he was on a quest to rescue

her.

Tía  Callida  would’ve  loved  this  vat,  because  it  was  way  worse  than
jalapeño juice. Leo looked for a trigger—something that would disable the
net. He didn’t see anything.

He had a moment of panic. Nyssa had said there were several traps like
this  in  the  woods,  and  they  were  planning  more.  What  if  the  dragon  had
already stepped into another one? How could Leo possibly find them all?

He  continued  to  search,  but  he didn’t see any release  mechanism. No
large button labeled off. It occurred to him that there might not be one. He
started to despair—and then he heard the sound.

It  was  more  of a tremor—the  deep sort  of rumbling you hear  in  your
gut rather than your ears. It gave him the jitters, but he didn’t look around
for the source. He just kept examining the trap, thinking, Must  be a long
way off. It’s pounding its way through the woods. I gotta hurry.

Then he heard a grinding snort, like steam forced out of a metal barrel.
His  neck  tingled.  He  turned  slowly.  At  the  edge  of  the  pit,  fifty  feet
away, two glowing red eyes were staring at him. The creature gleamed in

the moonlight, and Leo couldn’t believe something that huge had sneaked
up on him so fast. Too late, he realized its gaze was fixed on the fire in his
hand, and he extinguished the flames.

He  could  still  see  the  dragon  just  fine.  It  was  about  sixty  feet  long,
snout  to  tail,  its  body  made  of  interlocking  bronze  plates.  Its  claws  were
the  size  of  butcher  knives,  and  its  mouth  was  lined  with  hundreds  of
dagger-sharp  metal teeth.  Steam came  out  of its nostrils. It  snarled like a
chain  saw  cutting  through  a  tree.  It  could’ve  bitten  Leo  in  half,  easy,  or
stomped him flat. It was the most beautiful thing he’d ever seen, except for
one problem that completely ruined Leo’s plan.

“You don’t have wings,” Leo said.
The  dragon’s  snarl  died.  It  tilted  its  head  as  if  to  say,  Why aren’t you

running away in terror?

“Hey,  no  offense,”  Leo  said.  “You’re  amazing!  Good  god,  who  made
you?  Are  you  hydraulic  or  nuclear-powered  or  what?  But  if  it  was  me,  I
would’ve  put  wings  on  you.  What  kind  of  dragon  doesn’t  have  wings?  I
guess maybe you’re too heavy to fly? I should’ve thought of that.”

The  dragon  snorted,  more  confused  now.  It  was  supposed  to  trample
Leo. This conversation thing wasn’t part of the plan. It took a step forward,
and Leo shouted, “No!”

The dragon snarled again.
“It’s a trap, bronze brain,” Leo said. “They’re trying to catch you.”
The  dragon  opened  its  mouth  and  blew  fire.  A  column  of  white-hot
flames billowed over Leo, more than he’d ever tried to endure before. He
felt as if he were being hosed down with a powerful, very hot fire hose. It
stung  a  little,  but  he  stood  his  ground.  When  the  flames  died,  he  was
perfectly  fine.  Even  his  clothes  were  okay,  which  Leo  didn’t  understand,
but  for  which  he  was  grateful.  He  liked  his  army  jacket,  and  having  his
pants seared off would’ve been pretty embarrassing.

The dragon stared at Leo. Its face didn’t actually change, being made
of  metal  and  all,  but  Leo  thought  he  could  read  its  expression:  Why  no
crispy  critter?  A  spark  flew  out  of  its  neck  like  it  was  about  to  short-
circuit.

“You  can’t  burn  me,”  Leo  said,  trying  to  sound  stern  and  calm.  He’d
never  had  a  dog  before,  but  he  talked  to  the  dragon  the  way  he  thought

you’d talk to a dog. “Stay, boy. Don’t come any closer. I don’t want you to
get caught. See, they think you’re broken and have to be scrapped. But I
don’t believe that. I can fix you if you’ll let me—”

The dragon creaked, roared, and charged. The trap sprang. The floor of
the  crater  erupted  with  a  sound  like  a  thousand  trash  can  lids  banging
together. Dirt and leaves flew, metal net flashing. Leo was knocked off his
feet, turned upside down, and doused in Tabasco sauce and oil. He found
himself sandwiched between the vat and the dragon as it thrashed, trying to
free itself from the net that had wrapped around them both.

The  dragon  blew  flames  in  every  direction,  lighting  up  the  sky  and
setting trees on fire. Oil and sauce burned all over them. It didn’t hurt Leo,
but it left a nasty taste in his mouth.
“Will you stop that!” he yelled.
The  dragon  kept  squirming.  Leo  realized  he  would  get  crushed  if  he
didn’t move. It wasn’t easy, but he managed to wriggle out from between
the dragon and the vat. He squirmed his way through the net. Fortunately
the holes were plenty big enough for a skinny kid.

He ran to the dragon’s head. It tried to snap at him, but its teeth were
tangled  in  the  mesh.  It  blew  fire  again,  but  seemed  to  be  running  out  of
energy. This time the flames were only orange. They sputtered before they
even reached Leo’s face.

“Listen,  man,”  Leo  said,  “you’re  just  going  to  show  them  where  you
are. Then they’ll come and break out the acid and the metal cutters. Is that
what you want?”

The dragon’s jaw made a creaking sound, like it was trying to talk.
“Okay, then,” Leo said. “You’ll have to trust me.”
And Leo set to work.

It took him almost an hour to find the control panel. It was right behind the
dragon’s head, which made sense. He’d elected to keep the dragon in the
net,  because  it  was  easier  to  work  with  the  dragon  constrained,  but  the
dragon didn’t like it.

“Hold still!” Leo scolded.
The  dragon  made  another  creaking  sound  that  might’ve  been  a

whimper.

Leo examined the wires inside the dragon’s head. He was distracted by
a  sound  in  the  woods,  but  when  he  looked  up  it  was  just  a  tree  spirit—a
dryad,  Leo  thought  they  were  called—putting  out  the  flames  in  her
branches.  Fortunately,  the  dragon  hadn’t  started  an  all-out  forest  fire,  but
still  the  dryad  wasn’t  too  pleased.  The  girl’s  dress  was  smoking.  She
smothered the flames with a silky blanket, and when she saw Leo looking
at her, she made a gesture that was probably very rude in Dryad. Then she
disappeared in a green poof of mist.

Leo  returned  his  attention  to  the  wiring.  It  was  ingenious,  definitely,
and it made sense to him. This was the motor control relay. This processed
sensory input from the eyes. This disk …
“Ha,” he said. “Well, no wonder.”
Creak? the dragon asked with its jaw.
“You’ve  got  a  corroded  control  disk.  Probably  regulates  your  higher
reasoning  circuits,  right?  Rusty  brain,  man.  No  wonder  you’re  a  little  …
confused.”  He  almost  said  crazy,  but  he  caught  himself.  “I  wish  I  had  a
replacement disk, but …this is a complicated piece of circuitry. I’m gonna
have to take it out and clean it. Only be a minute.” He pulled out the disk,
and the dragon went absolutely still. The glow died in its eyes. Leo slid off
its back and began polishing the disk. He mopped up some oil and Tabasco
sauce with his sleeve, which helped cut through the grime, but the more he
cleaned,  the  more  concerned  he  got.  Some  of  the  circuits  were  beyond
repair.  He  could  make  it  better,  but  not  perfect.  For  that,  he’d  need  a
completely new disk, and he had no idea how to build one.

He tried to work quickly. He wasn’t sure how long the dragon’s control
disk could be off without damaging it—maybe forever—but he didn’t want
to take chances. Once he’d done the best he could, he climbed back up to
the  dragon’s  head  and  started  cleaning  the  wiring  and  gearboxes,  getting
himself filthy in the process.

“Clean  hands,  dirty  equipment,”  he  muttered,  something  his  mother
used to say. By the time he was through, his hands were black with grease
and his clothes looked like he’d just lost a mud-wrestling contest, but the
mechanisms looked a lot better. He slipped in the disk, connected the last
wire, and sparks flew. The dragon shuddered. Its eyes began to glow.

“Better?” Leo asked.

The dragon made a sound like a high-speed drill. It opened its mouth

and all its teeth rotated.

“I guess that’s a yes. Hold on, I’ll free you.”
Another  thirty  minutes  to  find  the  release  clamps  for  the  net  and
untangle the dragon, but finally it stood and shook the last bit of netting off
its back. It roared triumphantly and shot fire at the sky.
“Seriously,” Leo said. “Could you not show off?”
Creak? the dragon asked.
“You need a name,” Leo decided. “I’m calling you Festus.”
The dragon whirred its teeth and grinned. At least Leo hoped it was a

grin.

“Cool,” Leo said. “But we still have a problem, because you don’t have

wings.”

Festus tilted his head and snorted steam. Then he lowered his back in

an unmistakable gesture. He wanted Leo to climb on.

“Where we going?” Leo asked.
But  he  was  too  excited  to  wait  for  an  answer.  He  climbed  onto  the

dragon’s back, and Festus bounded off into the woods.

* * *

Leo lost track of time and all sense of direction. It seemed impossible the
woods  could  be  so  deep  and  wild,  but  the  dragon  traveled  until  the  trees
were like skyscrapers and the canopy of leaves completely blotted out the
stars.  Even  the  fire  in  Leo’s  hand  couldn’t  have  lit  the  way,  but  the
dragon’s glowing red eyes acted like headlights.

Finally they crossed a stream and came to a dead end, a limestone cliff
a  hundred  feet  tall—a  solid,  sheer  mass  the  dragon  couldn’t  possibly
climb.

Festus stopped at the base and lifted one leg like a dog pointing.
“What  is  it?”  Leo  slid  to  the  ground.  He  walked  up  to  the  cliff—

nothing but solid rock. The dragon kept pointing.

“It’s not going to move out of your way,” Leo told him.
The loose  wire in  the  dragon’s neck sparked,  but  otherwise he stayed
still. Leo put his hand on the cliff. Suddenly his fingers smoldered. Lines

of  fire  spread  from  his  fingertips  like  ignited  gunpowder,  sizzling  across
the limestone. The burning lines raced across the cliff face until they had
outlined a glowing red door five times as tall as Leo. He backed up and the
door swung open, disturbingly silently for such a big slab of rock.

“Perfectly  balanced,”  he  muttered. 

“That’s 

some 

first-rate

engineering.”

The dragon unfroze and marched inside, as if he were coming home.
Leo stepped through, and the door began to close. He had a moment of
panic,  remembering  that  night  in  the  machine  shop  long  ago,  when  he’d
been locked in. What if he got stuck in here? But then lights flickered on—
a  combination  of  electric  fluorescents  and  wall-mounted  torches.  When
Leo saw the cavern, he forgot about leaving.

“Festus,” he muttered. “What is this place?”
The  dragon  stomped  to  the  center  of  the  room,  leaving  tracks  in  the

thick dust, and curled up on a large circular platform.

The  cave  was  the  size  of  an  airplane  hangar,  with  endless  worktables
and  storage  cages,  rows  of  garage-sized  doors  along  either  wall,  and
staircases that led up to a network of catwalks high above. Equipment was
everywhere—hydraulic  lifts,  welding  torches,  hazard  suits,  air-spades,
forklifts,  plus  something  that  looked  suspiciously  like  a  nuclear  reaction
chamber. Bulletin boards were covered with tattered, faded blueprints. And
weapons,  armor,  shields—war  supplies  all  over  the  place,  a  lot  of  them
only partially finished.

Hanging  from  chains  far  above  the  dragon’s  platform  was  an  old
tattered banner almost too faded to read. The letters were Greek, but Leo
somehow knew what they said: bunker 9.

Did that mean nine as in the Hephaestus cabin, or nine as in there were
eight others? Leo looked  at  Festus,  still  curled up on the  platform,  and it
occurred to him that the dragon looked so content because it was home. It
had probably been built on that pad.

“Do  the  other  kids  know  …  ?”  Leo’s  question  died  as  he  asked  it.
Clearly,  this  place  had  been  abandoned  for  decades.  Cobwebs  and  dust
covered everything. The floor revealed no footprints except for his, and the
huge paw prints of the dragon. He was the first one in this bunker since …
since a long time ago. Bunker 9 had been abandoned with a lot of projects
half finished on the tables. Locked up and forgotten, but why?

Leo looked at a map on the wall—a battle map of camp, but the paper

was as cracked and yellow as onionskin. A date at the bottom read, 1864.

“No way,” he muttered.
Then  he  spotted  a  blueprint  on  a  nearby  bulletin  board,  and  his  heart
almost leaped out of his throat. He ran to the worktable and stared up at a
white-line  drawing  almost  faded  beyond  recognition:  a  Greek  ship  from
several  different  angles.  Faintly  scrawled  words  underneath  it  read:
prophecy? unclear. flight?

It was the ship he’d seen in his dreams—the flying ship. Someone had
tried  to  build  it  here,  or  at  least  sketched  out  the  idea.  Then  it  was  left,
forgotten  …  a  prophecy  yet  to  come.  And  weirdest  of  all,  the  ship’s
masthead was exactly like the one Leo had drawn when he was five—the
head of a dragon. “Looks like you, Festus,” he murmured. “That’s creepy.”
The  masthead  gave  him  an  uneasy  feeling,  but  Leo’s  mind  spun  with
too  many  other  questions  to  think  about  it  for  long.  He  touched  the
blueprint, hoping he could take it down to study, but the paper crackled at
his touch, so he left it alone. He looked around for other clues. No boats.
No  pieces  that  looked  like  parts  of  this  project,  but  there  were  so  many
doors and storerooms to explore.

Festus snorted like he was trying to get Leo’s attention, reminding him
they didn’t have all night. It was true. Leo figured it would be morning in a
few hours, and he’d gotten completely sidetracked. He’d saved the dragon,
but  it  wasn’t  going  to  help  him  on  the  quest.  He  needed  something  that
would fly.

Festus nudged something toward him—a leather tool belt that had been
left next to his construction pad. Then the dragon switched on his glowing
red eye beams and turned them toward the ceiling. Leo looked up to where
the  spotlights  were  pointing,  and  yelped  when  he  recognized  the  shapes
hanging above them in the darkness.

“Festus,” he said in a small voice. “We’ve got work to do.”

JASON DREAMED OF WOLVES.

He  stood  in  a  clearing  in  the  middle  of  a  redwood  forest.  In  front  of
him rose the ruins of a stone mansion. Low gray clouds blended with the
ground  fog,  and  cold  rain  hung  in  the  air.  A  pack  of  large  gray  beasts
milled  around  him,  brushing  against  his  legs,  snarling  and  baring  their
teeth. They gently nudged him toward the ruins.

Jason  had  no  desire  to  become  the  world’s  largest  dog  biscuit,  so  he

decided to do what they wanted.

The  ground  squelched  under  his  boots  as  he  walked.  Stone  spires  of
chimneys,  no  longer  attached  to  anything,  rose  up  like  totem  poles.  The
house must’ve been enormous once, multi-storied with massive log walls
and a soaring gabled roof, but now nothing remained but its stone skeleton.
Jason  passed  under  a  crumbling  doorway  and  found  himself  in  a  kind  of
courtyard.

Before him was a drained reflecting pool, long and rectangular. Jason
couldn’t tell how deep it was, because the bottom was filled with mist. A
dirt  path  led  all  the  way  around,  and  the  house’s  uneven  walls  rose  on
either side. Wolves paced under the archways of rough red volcanic stone.
At the far end of the pool sat a giant she-wolf, several feet taller than
Jason. Her eyes glowed silver in the fog, and her coat was the same color
as the rocks—warm chocolaty red.
“I know this place,” Jason said.
The  wolf  regarded  him.  She  didn’t  exactly  speak,  but  Jason  could
understand her. The movements of her ears and whiskers, the flash of her
eyes, the way she curled her lips—all of these were part of her language.

Of course, the  she-wolf  said.  You  began  your  journey  here  as  a  pup.

Now you must find your way back. A new quest, a new start.

“That  isn’t  fair,”  Jason  said.  But  as  soon  as  he  spoke,  he  knew  there

was no point complaining to the she-wolf.

Wolves  didn’t feel sympathy. They never  expected fairness.  The  wolf

said: Conquer or die. This is always our way.

Jason wanted to protest that he couldn’t conquer if he didn’t know who
he was, or where he was supposed to go. But he knew this wolf. Her name
was  simply  Lupa,  the  Mother  Wolf,  the  greatest  of  her  kind.  Long  ago
she’d  found  him  in  this  place,  protected  him,  nurtured  him,  chosen  him,
but if Jason showed weakness, she would tear him to shreds. Rather than
being  her  pup,  he  would  become  her  dinner.  In  the  wolf  pack,  weakness
was not an option.

“Can you guide me?” Jason asked.
Lupa made a rumbling noise deep in her throat, and the mist in the pool

dissolved.

At first Jason wasn’t sure what he was seeing. At opposite ends of the
pool, two dark spires had erupted from the cement floor like the drill bits
of  some  massive  tunneling  machines  boring  through  the  surface.  Jason
couldn’t  tell  if  the  spires  were  made  of  rock  or  petrified  vines,  but  they
were formed of thick tendrils that came together in a point at the top. Each
spire was about five feet tall, but they weren’t identical. The one closest to
Jason was darker and seemed like a solid mass, its tendrils fused together.
As  he  watched,  it  pushed  a  little  farther  out  of  the  earth  and  expanded  a
little wider.

On Lupa’s end of the pool, the second spire’s tendrils were more open,
like  the  bars  of  a  cage.  Inside,  Jason  could  vaguely  see  a  misty  figure
struggling, shifting within its confines.

“Hera,” Jason said.
The she-wolf growled in agreement. The other wolves circled the pool,

their fur standing up on their backs as they snarled at the spires.

The enemy has chosen this place to awaken her most powerful son, the
giant king, Lupa said. Our sacred place, where demigods are claimed—the
place  of  death  or  life.  The  burned  house.  The  house  of  the  wolf.  It  is  an
abomination. You must stop her.

“Her?” Jason was confused. “You mean, Hera?”

The  she-wolf  gnashed  her  teeth  impatiently.  Use  your  senses,  pup.  I
care nothing for Juno, but if she falls, our enemy wakes. And that will be
the end for all of us. You know this place. You can find it again. Cleanse
our house. Stop this before it is too late.

The  dark  spire  grew  slowly  larger,  like  the  bulb  of  some  horrible
flower. Jason sensed that if it ever opened, it would release something he
did not want to meet.

“Who am I?” Jason asked the she-wolf. “At least tell me that.”
Wolves don’t have much of a sense of humor, but Jason could tell the
question  amused  Lupa,  as  if  Jason  were  a  cub  just  trying  out  his  claws,
practicing to be the alpha male.

You are our saving grace, as always. The she-wolf curled her lip, as if

she had just made a clever joke. Do not fail, son of Jupiter.

JASON  WOKE  TO  THE  SOUND  OF  THUNDER.  Then he remembered where  he
was. It was always thundering in Cabin One.

Above his cot, the domed ceiling was decorated with a blue-and-white
mosaic  like  a  cloudy  sky.  The  cloud  tiles  shifted  across  the  ceiling,
changing  from  white  to  black.  Thunder  rumbled  through  the  room,  and
gold tiles flashed like veins of lightning.

Except  for  the  cot  that  the  other  campers  had  brought  him,  the  cabin
had  no  regular  furniture—no  chairs,  tables,  or  dressers.  As  far  as  Jason
could  tell,  it  didn’t  even  have  a  bathroom.  The  walls  were  carved  with
alcoves, each holding a bronze brazier or a golden eagle statue on a marble
pedestal. In the center of the room, a twenty-foot-tall, full-color statue of
Zeus in classic Greek robes stood with a shield at his side and a lightning
bolt raised, ready to smite somebody.

Jason studied the statue, looking for anything he had in common with
the Lord of the Sky. Black hair? Nope. Grumbly expression? Well, maybe.
Beard? No thanks. In his robes and sandals, Zeus looked like a really buff,
really angry hippie.

Yeah, Cabin One. A big honor, the other campers had told him. Sure, if
you liked sleeping in a cold temple by yourself with Hippie Zeus frowning
down at you all night.

Jason  got  up  and  rubbed  his  neck.  His  whole  body  was  stifffrom  bad
sleep  and summoning  lightning.  That  little trick  last  night hadn’t been as
easy as he had let on. It had almost made him pass out.

Next to the cot, new clothes were laid out for him: jeans, sneakers, and
an  orange  Camp  Half-Blood  shirt.  He  definitely  needed  a  change  of
clothes,  but  looking  down  at  his  tattered  purple  shirt,  he  was  reluctant  to
change. It felt wrong somehow, putting on the camp shirt. He still couldn’t
believe he belonged here, despite everything they’d told him.

He thought about his dream, hoping more memories would come back
to  him  about  Lupa,  or  that  ruined  house  in  the  redwoods.  He  knew  he’d
been there before. The wolf was real. But his head ached when he tried to
remember. The marks on his forearm seemed to burn.

If  he  could  find  those  ruins,  he  could  find  his  past.  Whatever  was

growing inside that rock spire, Jason had to stop it.

He looked at Hippie Zeus. “You’re welcome to help.”
The statue said nothing.
“Thanks, Pops,” Jason muttered.
He  changed  clothes  and  checked  his  reflection  in  Zeus’s  shield.  His
face  looked  watery  and  strange  in  the  metal,  like  he  was  dissolving  in  a
pool of gold. Definitely he didn’t look as good as Piper had last night after
she’d suddenly been transformed.

Jason still wasn’t sure how he felt about that. He’d acted like an idiot,
announcing in front of everyone that she was a knockout. Not like there’d
been  anything  wrong  with  her  before.  Sure,  she  looked  great  after
Aphrodite zapped her, but she also didn’t look like herself, not comfortable
with the attention.

Jason had felt bad for her. Maybe that was crazy, considering she’d just
been claimed by a goddess and turned into the most gorgeous girl at camp.
Everybody had started fawning over her, telling her how amazing she was
and how obviously she should be the one who went on the quest—but that
attention  had  nothing  to  do  with  who  she  was.  New  dress,  new  makeup,
glowing pink aura, and boom: suddenly people liked her. Jason felt like he
understood that.

Last  night  when  he’d  called  down  lightning,  the  other  campers’
reactions had seemed familiar to him. He was pretty sure he’d been dealing
with  that  for  a  long  time—people  looking  at  him  in  awe  just  because  he
was the son of Zeus, treating him special, but it didn’t have anything to do
with  him.  Nobody  cared  about  him,  just  his  big  scary  daddy  standing
behind  him  with  the  doomsday  bolt,  as  if  to  say,  Respect  this  kid  or  eat
voltage!

After  the  campfire,  when  people  started  heading  back  to  their  cabins,
Jason had gone up to  Piper  and formally  asked her to  come  with  him on
the quest.

She’d still been in a state of shock, but she nodded, rubbing her arms,

which must’ve been cold in that sleeveless dress.

“Aphrodite took my snowboarding jacket,” she muttered. “Mugged by

my own mom.”

In the first row of the amphitheater, Jason found a blanket and wrapped

it around her shoulders. “We’ll get you a new jacket,” he promised.

She managed a smile. He wanted to wrap his arms around her, but he
restrained  himself.  He  didn’t  want  her  to  think  he  was  as  shallow  as
everyone  else—trying  to  make  a  move  on  her  because  she’d  turned  all
beautiful.

He was glad Piper was going with him on the quest. Jason had tried to
act brave at the campfire, but it was just that—an act. The idea of going up
against an evil force powerful enough to kidnap Hera scared him witless,
especially since he didn’t even know his own past. He’d need help, and it
felt right: Piper should be with him. But things were already complicated
without  figuring  out  how  much  he  liked  her,  and  why.  He’d  already
messed with her head enough.

He slipped on his new shoes, ready to get out of that cold, empty cabin.
Then  he  spotted  something  he  hadn’t  noticed  the  night  before.  A  brazier
had been moved out of one of the alcoves to create a sleeping niche, with a
bedroll, a backpack, even some pictures taped to the wall.

Jason  walked  over.  Whoever  had  slept  there,  it  had  been  a  long  time
ago.  The  bedroll  smelled  musty.  The  backpack  was  covered  with  a  thin
film  of  dust.  Some  of  the  photos  once  taped  to  the  wall  had  lost  their
stickiness and fallen to the floor.

One picture showed Annabeth—much younger, maybe eight, but Jason
could tell it was she: same blond hair and gray eyes, same distracted look
like she was thinking a million things at once. She stood next to a sandy-
haired guy about fourteen or fifteen, with a mischievous smile and ragged
leather armor over a T-shirt. He was pointing to an alley behind them, like
he was  telling  the  photographer, Let’s go  meet things in  a  dark alley  and
kill them! A second photo showed Annabeth and the same guy sitting at a
campfire, laughing hysterically.

Finally Jason picked up one of the photos that had fallen. It was a strip
of pictures like you’d take in a do-it-yourself photo booth: Annabeth and
the sandy-haired guy, but with another girl between them. She was maybe

fifteen, with black hair—choppy like Piper’s—a black leather jacket, and
silver jewelry, so she looked kind of goth; but she was caught mid-laugh,
and it was clear she was with her two best friends.

“That’s Thalia,” someone said.
Jason turned.
Annabeth was peering over his shoulder. Her expression was sad, like
the picture bought back hard memories. “She’s the other child of Zeus who
lived here—but not for long. Sorry, I should’ve knocked.”

“It’s fine,” Jason said. “Not like I think of this place as home.”
Annabeth  was  dressed  for  travel,  with  a  winter  coat  over  her  camp

clothes, her knife at her belt, and a backpack across her shoulder.

Jason  said,  “Don’t  suppose  you’ve  changed  your  mind  about  coming

with us?”

She shook her head. “You got a good team already. I’m off to look for

Percy.”

Jason  was  a  little  disappointed.  He  would’ve  appreciated  having
somebody on the trip who knew what they were doing, so he wouldn’t feel
like he was leading Piper and Leo off a cliff.

“Hey,  you’ll  do  fine,”  Annabeth  promised.  “Something  tells  me  this

isn’t your first quest.”

Jason  had  a  vague  suspicion  she  was  right,  but  that  didn’t  make  him
feel any better. Everyone seemed to think he was so brave and confident,
but they didn’t see how lost he really felt. How could they trust him when
he didn’t even know who he was?

He looked at the pictures of Annabeth smiling. He wondered how long
it  had  been  since  she’d  smiled.  She  must  really  like  this  Percy  guy  to
search for him so hard, and that made Jason a little envious. Was anyone
searching for him right  now?  What  if  somebody  cared  for him that much
and was going out of her mind with worry, and he couldn’t even remember
his old life?

“You know who I am,” he guessed. “Don’t you?”
Annabeth gripped  the  hilt  of her dagger.  She looked  for  a chair to  sit
on, but of course there weren’t any. “Honestly, Jason … I’m not sure. My
best  guess,  you’re  a  loner.  It  happens  sometimes.  For  one  reason  or
another, the camp never found you, but you survived anyway by constantly

moving  around.  Trained  yourself  to  fight.  Handled  the  monsters  on  your
own. You beat the odds.”

“The  first  thing  Chiron  said  to  me,”  Jason  remembered,  “was  you

should be dead.”

“That  could  be  why,”  Annabeth  said.  “Most  demigods  would  never
make  it  on  their  own.  And  a  child  of  Zeus—I  mean,  it  doesn’t  get  any
more  dangerous  than  that.  The  chances  of  your  reaching  age  fifteen
without finding Camp Half-Blood or dying—microscopic. But like I said,
it does happen. Thalia ran away when she was young. She survived on her
own  for  years.  Even  took  care  of  me  for  a  while.  So  maybe  you  were  a
loner too.”

Jason held out his arm. “And these marks?”
Annabeth glanced at the tattoos. Clearly, they bothered her. “Well, the
eagle is the symbol of Zeus, so that makes sense. The twelve lines—maybe
they stand for years, if you’d been making them since you were three years
old.  SPQR—that’s  the  motto  of  the  old  Roman  Empire:  Senatus
Populusque  Romanus,  the  Senate  and  the  People  of  Rome.  Though  why
you  would  burn  that  on  your  own  arm,  I  don’t  know.  Unless  you  had  a
really harsh Latin teacher …”

Jason  was  pretty  sure  that  wasn’t  the  reason.  It  also  didn’t  seem
possible he’d been on his own his whole life. But what else made sense?
Annabeth  had  been  pretty  clear—Camp  Half-Blood  was  the  only  safe
place in the world for demigods.

“I, um … had a weird dream last night,” he said. It seemed like a stupid

thing to confide, but Annabeth didn’t look surprised.

“Happens all the time to demigods,” she said. “What did you see?”
He  told  her  about  the  wolves  and  the  ruined  house  and  the  two  rock
spires.  As  he  talked,  Annabeth  started  pacing,  looking  more  and  more
agitated.

“You don’t remember where this house is?” she asked.
Jason shook his head. “But I’m sure I’ve been there before.”
“Redwoods,” she mused. “Could be northern California. And the she-
wolf … I’ve  studied  goddesses,  spirits, and monsters  my  whole life.  I’ve
never heard of Lupa.”

“She said the enemy was a ‘her.’ I thought maybe it was Hera, but—”

“I  wouldn’t  trust  Hera,  but  I  don’t  think  she’s  the  enemy.  And  that
thing rising out of the earth—” Annabeth’s expression darkened. “You’ve
got to stop it.”

“You know what it is, don’t you?” he asked. “Or at least, you’ve got a
guess. I saw your face last night at the campfire. You looked at Chiron like
it was suddenly dawning on you, but you didn’t want to scare us.”

Annabeth hesitated. “Jason, the thing about prophecies …the more you
know, the more you try to change them, and that can be disastrous. Chiron
believes it’s better that you find your own path, find out things in your own
time.  If  he’d  told  me  everything  he  knew  before  my  first  quest  with
Percy… I’ve got to admit, I’m not sure I would’ve been able to go through
with it. For your quest, it’s even more important.”

“That bad, huh?”
“Not if you succeed. At least … I hope not.”
“But I don’t even know where to start. Where am I supposed to go?”
“Follow the monsters,” Annabeth suggested.
Jason  thought  about  that.  The  storm  spirit  who’d  attacked  him  at  the
Grand Canyon had said he was being recalled to his boss. If Jason could
track  the  storm  spirits,  he  might  be  able  to  find  the  person  controlling
them. And maybe that would lead him to Hera’s prison.
“Okay,” he said. “How do I find storm winds?”
“Personally, I’d ask a wind god,” Annabeth said. “Aeolus is the master
of all the winds, but he’s a little … unpredictable. No one finds him unless
he wants to be found. I’d try one of the four seasonal wind gods that work
for  Aeolus.  The  nearest  one,  the  one  who  has  the  most  dealings  with
heroes, is Boreas, the North Wind.”

“So if I looked him up on Google maps—”
“Oh, he’s not hard to find,” Annabeth promised. “He settled in North
America like all the other gods. So of course he picked the oldest northern
settlement, about as far north as you can go.”

“Maine?” Jason guessed.
“Farther.”
Jason tried to envision a map. What was farther north than Maine? The

oldest northern settlement …

“Canada,” he decided. “Quebec.”

Annabeth smiled. “I hope you speak French.”
Jason actually felt a spark of excitement. Quebec—at least now he had
a  goal.  Find  the  North  Wind,  track  down  the  storm  spirits,  find  out  who
they worked for and where that ruined house was. Free Hera. All in four
days. Cake.

“Thanks, Annabeth.” He looked at the photo booth pictures still in his
hand. “So, um … you said it was dangerous being a child of Zeus. What
ever happened to Thalia?”

“Oh, she’s fine,” Annabeth said. “She became a Hunter of Artemis—
one  of  the  handmaidens  of  the  goddess.  They  roam  around  the  country
killing monsters. We don’t see them at camp very often.”

Jason  glanced  over  at  the  huge  statue  of  Zeus.  He  understood  why
Thalia  had  slept  in  this  alcove.  It  was  the  only  place  in  the  cabin  not  in
Hippie  Zeus’s  line  of  sight.  And  even  that  hadn’t  been  enough.  She’d
chosen  to  follow  Artemis  and  be  part  of  a  group  rather  than  stay  in  this
cold  drafty  temple  alone  with  her  twenty-foot-tall  dad—Jason’s  dad—
glowering  down  at  her.  Eat  voltage!  Jason  didn’t  have  any  trouble
understanding Thalia’s feelings. He wondered if there was a Hunters group
for guys.

“Who’s the other kid in the photo?” he asked. “The sandy-haired guy.”
Annabeth’s expression tightened. Touchy subject.
“That’s Luke,” she said. “He’s dead now.”
Jason decided it was best not to ask more, but the way Annabeth said
Luke’s  name,  he  wondered  if  maybe  Percy  Jackson  wasn’t  the  only  boy
Annabeth had ever liked.

He focused again on Thalia’s face. He kept thinking this photo of her

was important. He was missing something.

Jason  felt  a  strange  sense  of  connection  to  this  other  child  of  Zeus—
someone  who  might  understand  his  confusion,  maybe  even  answer  some
questions.  But  another  voice  inside  him,  an  insistent  whisper,  said:
Dangerous. Stay away.

“How old is she now?” he asked.
“Hard to say. She was a tree for a while. Now she’s immortal.”
“What?”

His expression must’ve  been pretty  good,  because  Annabeth laughed.
“Don’t  worry.  It’s  not  something  all  children  of  Zeus  go  through.  It’s  a
long story, but … well, she was out of commission for a long time. If she’d
aged regularly, she’d be in her twenties now, but she still looks the same as
in  that  picture,  like  she’s  about  …  well,  about  your  age.  Fifteen  or
sixteen?”

Something  the  she-wolf  had  said  in  his  dream  nagged  at  Jason.  He

found himself asking, “What’s her last name?”

Annabeth looked uneasy. “She didn’t use a last name, really. If she had
to, she’d use her mom’s, but they didn’t get along. Thalia ran away when
she was pretty young.”
Jason waited.
“Grace,” Annabeth said. “Thalia Grace.”
Jason’s fingers went numb. The picture fluttered to the floor.
“You okay?” Annabeth asked.
A  shred  of  memory  had  ignited—maybe  a  tiny  piece  that  Hera  had
forgotten to steal. Or maybe she’d left it there on purpose—just enough for
him  to  remember  that  name,  and  know  that  digging  up  his  past  was
terribly, terribly dangerous.

You should be dead, Chiron had said. It wasn’t a comment about Jason
beating  the  odds as a loner.  Chiron  knew  something specific—something
about Jason’s family.

The  she-wolf  ’s  words  in  his  dream  finally  made  sense  to  him,  her
clever  joke  at  his  expense.  He  could  imagine  Lupa  growling  a  wolfish
laugh.

“What is it?” Annabeth pressed.
Jason couldn’t keep this to himself. It would kill him, and he had to get

Annabeth’s help. If she knew Thalia, maybe she could advise him.

“You have to swear not to tell anyone else,” he said.
“Jason—”
“Swear it,” he urged. “Until I figure out what’s going on, what this all
means—” He rubbed the burned tattoos on his forearm. “You have to keep
a secret.”

Annabeth hesitated, but her curiosity won out. “All right. Until you tell
me it’s okay, I won’t share what you say with anyone else. I swear on the

River Styx.”

Thunder  rumbled,  even  louder  than  usual  for  the  cabin.  You  are  our
saving  Grace,  the  wolf  had  snarled.  Jason  picked  up  the  photo  from  the
floor.  “My  last  name  is  Grace,”  he  said.  “This  is  my  sister.”  Annabeth
turned  pale.  Jason  could  see  her  wrestling  with  dismay,  disbelief,  anger.
She thought he was lying. His claim was impossible. And part of him felt
the same way, but as soon as he spoke the words, he knew they were true.

Then the doors of the cabin burst open. Half a dozen campers spilled
in,  led  by  the  bald  guy  from  Iris,  Butch.  “Hurry!”  he  said,  and  Jason
couldn’t  tell  if  his  expression  was  excitement  or  fear.  “The  dragon  is
back.”

PIPER WOKE UP AND IMMEDIATELY GRABBED a mirror. There were plenty of
those in the Aphrodite cabin. She sat on her bunk, looked at her reflection
and groaned.

She was still gorgeous.
Last night after the campfire, she’d tried everything. She messed up her
hair, washed the makeup off her face, cried to make her eyes red. Nothing
worked. Her hair popped back to perfection. The magic makeup reapplied
itself. Her eyes refused to get puffy or bloodshot.

She would’ve changed clothes, but she had nothing to change into. The
other Aphrodite campers offered her some (laughing behind her back, she
was sure), but each outfit was even more fashionable and ridiculous than
what she had on.

Now,  after  a  horrible  night’s  sleep,  still  no  change.  Piper  normally
looked  like  a  zombie  in  the  morning,  but  her  hair  was  styled  like  a
supermodel’s and her skin was perfect. Even that horrible zit at the base of
her  nose,  which  she’d  had  for  so  many  days  she’d  started  to  call  it  Bob,
had disappeared.

She growled in  frustration  and raked  her fingers through  her hair. No
use. The do just popped back into place. She looked like Cherokee Barbie.
From  across  the  cabin,  Drew  called,  “Oh,  honey,  it  won’t  go  away.”
Her voice dripped with false sympathy. “Mom’s blessing will last at least
another day. Maybe a week if you’re lucky.”

Piper gritted her teeth. “A week?”
The other  Aphrodite  kids—about  dozen girls  and five  guys—smirked
and snickered at her discomfort. Piper knew she should play cool, not let
them get under her skin. She’d dealt with shallow, popular kids plenty of
times. But this was different. These were her brothers and sisters, even if
she had nothing in common with them, and how Aphrodite had managed

to  have so many  kids  so close  in  age … Never  mind. She didn’t want to
know.

“Don’t  worry,  hon.”  Drew  blotted  her  fluorescent  lipstick.  “You’re
thinking you don’t belong here? We couldn’t agree more. Isn’t that right,
Mitchell ?”

One of the guys flinched. “Um, yeah. Sure.”
“Mmm-hmm.”  Drew  took  out  her  mascara  and  checked  her  lashes.
Everyone else watched, not daring to speak. “So anyways, people, fifteen
minutes  until  breakfast.  The  cabin’s  not  going  to  clean  itself!  And
Mitchell, I think you’ve learned your lesson. Right, sweetie? So you’re on
garbage patrol just for today, mm-kay? Show Piper how it’s done, ’cause I
have  a  feeling  she’ll  have  that  job  soon—if she survives her quest. Now,
get to work, everybody! It’s my bathroom time!”

Everybody  started  rushing  around,  making  beds  and  folding  clothes,
while Drew scooped up her makeup kit, hair dryer, and brush and marched
into the bathroom.

Someone inside yelped, and a girl about eleven was kicked out, hastily

wrapped in towels with shampoo still in her hair.

The door slammed shut, and the girl started to cry. A couple of older

campers comforted her and wiped the bubbles out of her hair.

“Seriously?” Piper said to no one in particular. “You let Drew treat you

like this?”

A  few  kids  shot  Piper  nervous  looks,  like  they  might  actually  agree,

but they said nothing.

The  campers  kept  working,  though  Piper  couldn’t  see  why  the  cabin
needed  much  cleaning.  It  was  a  life-size  dollhouse,  with  pink  walls  and
white window trim. The lace curtains were pastel blue and green, which of
course matched the sheets and feather comforters on all the beds.

The guys had one row of bunks separated by a curtain, but their section
of  the  cabin  was  just  as  neat  and  orderly  as  the  girls’.  Something  was
definitely unnatural about that. Every camper had a wooden camp chest at
the foot of their bunk with their name painted on it, and Piper guessed that
the  clothes  in  each  chest  were  neatly  folded  and  color  coordinated.  The
only  bit  of  individualism  was  how  the  campers  decorated  their  private
bunk  spaces.  Each  had  slightly  different  pictures  tacked  up  of  whatever

celebrities they thought were hot. A few had personal photos, too, but most
were actors or singers or whatever.

Piper  hoped  she  might  not  see  The Poster.  It  had  been  almost  a  year
since the movie, and she thought by now surely everyone had torn down
those old tattered advertisements and tacked up something newer. But no
such luck. She spotted one on the wall by the storage closet, in the middle
of a collage of famous heartthrobs.

The title  was  lurid  red: king  of  sparta.  Under  that,  the  poster  showed
the leading man—a three-quarters shot of bare-chested bronze flesh, with
ripped  pectorals  and  six-pack  abs.  He  was  clad  in  only  a  Greek  war  kilt
and a purple cape, sword in hand. He looked like he’d just been rubbed in
oil,  his  short  black  hair  gleaming  and  rivulets  of  sweat  pouring  off  his
rugged face, those dark sad eyes facing the camera as if to say, I  will  kill
your men and steal your women! Ha-ha!

It was the most ridiculous poster of all time. Piper and her dad had had
a  good  laugh  over  it  the  first  time  they  saw  it.  Then  the  movie  made  a
bajillion dollars. The poster graphic popped up everywhere. Piper couldn’t
get away from it at school, walking down the street, even online. It became
The Poster,  the  most  embarrassing  thing  in  her  life.  And  yeah,  it  was  a
picture of her dad.

She  turned  away  so  no  one  would  think  she  was  staring  at  it.  Maybe
when everyone went to breakfast she could tear it down and they wouldn’t
notice.

She  tried  to  look  busy,  but  she  didn’t  have  any  extra  clothes  to  fold.
She straightened her bed, then realized the top blanket was the one Jason
had wrapped around her shoulders last night. She picked it up and pressed
it to her face. It smelled of wood smoke, but unfortunately not of Jason. He
was the only person who’d been genuinely nice to her after the claiming,
like  he  cared  about  how  she  felt,  not  just  about  her  stupid  new  clothes.
God, she’d wanted to kiss him, but he’d seemed so uncomfortable, almost
scared of her. She couldn’t really blame him. She’d been glowing pink.

“’Scuse me,” said a voice by her feet. The garbage patrol guy, Mitchell,
was  crawling  around  on  all  fours,  picking  up  chocolate  wrappers  and
crumpled notes from under the bunk beds. Apparently the Aphrodite kids
weren’t one hundred percent neat freaks after all.

She moved out of his way. “What’d you do to make Drew mad?”

He glanced over at the bathroom door to make sure it was still closed.

“Last night, after you were claimed, I said you might not be so bad.”

It wasn’t much of a compliment, but Piper was stunned. An Aphrodite

kid had actually stood up for her?

“Thanks,” she said.
Mitchell shrugged. “Yeah, well. See where it got me. But for what it’s

worth, welcome to Cabin Ten.”

A girl with blond pigtails and braces raced up with a pile of clothes in
her  arms.  She  looked  around  furtively  like  she  was  delivering  nuclear
materials.

“I brought you these,” she whispered.
“Piper, meet Lacy,” Mitchell said, still crawling around on the floor.
“Hi,”  Lacy  said  breathlessly.  “You  can  change  clothes.  The  blessing
won’t stop you. This is just, you know, a backpack, some rations, ambrosia
and  nectar  for  emergencies,  some  jeans,  a  few  extra  shirts,  and  a  warm
jacket.  The  boots  might  be  a  little  snug.  But—well—we  took  up  a
collection. Good luck on your quest!”

Lacy dumped the things on the bed and started to hurry away, but Piper
caught her arm. “Hold on. At least let me thank you! Why are you rushing
off?”

Lacy  looked  like  she  might  shake  apart  from  nervousness.  “Oh,  well

—”

“Drew might find out,” Mitchell explained.
“I might have to wear the shoes of shame!” Lacy gulped.
“The what?” Piper asked.
Lacy and Mitchell both pointed to a black shelf mounted in the corner
of the room, like an altar. Displayed on it were a hideous pair of orthopedic
nurse’s shoes, bright white with thick soles.

“I had to wear them for a week once,” Lacy whimpered. “They don’t

go with anything!”

“And  there’re  worse  punishments,”  Mitchell  warned.  “Drew  can
charmspeak,  see?  Not  many  Aphrodite  kids  have  that  power;  but  if  she
tries hard enough, she can get you to do some pretty embarrassing things.
Piper, you’re the first person I’ve seen in a long time who is able to resist
her.”

“Charmspeak  …”  Piper  remembered  last  night,  the  way  the  crowd  at
the campfire had swayed back and forth between Drew’s opinion and hers.
“You mean, like, you could talk someone into doing things. Or … giving
you things. Like a car?”

“Oh, don’t give Drew any ideas!” Lacy gasped.
“But yeah,” Mitchell said. “She could do that.”
“So that’s why she’s head counselor,” Piper said. “She convinced you

all?”

Mitchell picked a nasty wad of gum from under Piper’s bed. “Nah, she
inherited  the  post  when  Silena  Beauregard  died  in  the  war.  Drew  was
second oldest. Oldest camper automatically gets the post, unless somebody
with  more  years  or  more  completed  quests  wants  to  challenge,  in  which
case  there’s  a  duel,  but  that  hardly  ever  happens.  Anyway,  we’ve  been
stuck  with  Drew  in  charge  since  August.  She  decided  to  make  some,  ah,
changes in the way the cabin is run.”

“Yes, I did!” Suddenly Drew was there, leaning against the bunk. Lacy
squeaked  like  a  guinea  pig  and  tried  to  run,  but  Drew  put  an  arm  out  to
stop  her.  She  looked  down  at  Mitchell.  “I  think  you  missed  some  trash,
sweetie. You’d better make another pass.”

Piper  glanced  toward  the  bathroom  and  saw  that  Drew  had  dumped
everything  from  the  bathroom  waste  bin—some  pretty  nasty  things—all
over the floor.

Mitchell sat up on his haunches. He glared at Drew like he was about
to  attack  (which  Piper  would’ve  paid  money  to  see),  but  finally  he
snapped, “Fine.”

Drew  smiled.  “See,  Piper,  hon,  we’re  a  good  cabin  here.  A  good
family! Silena Beauregard, though … you could take a warning from her.
She was secretly passing information to Kronos in the Titan War, helping
the enemy.”

Drew smiled all sweet and innocent, with her glittery pink makeup and
her  blow-dried  hair  lush  and  smelling  like  nutmeg.  She  looked  like  any
popular  teenage  girl  from  any  high  school.  But  her  eyes  were  as  cold  as
steel. Piper got the feeling Drew was looking straight into her soul, pulling
out her secrets.

Helping the enemy.

“Oh, none of the other cabins talk about it,” Drew confided. “They act

like Silena Beauregard was a hero.”

“She sacrificed her life to make things right,” Mitchell grumbled. “She

was a hero.”

“Mmm-hmm,”  Drew  said.  “Another  day  on  garbage  patrol,  Mitchell.
But anyways,  Silena  lost  track  of  what  this  cabin  is  about.  We  match  up
cute  couples  at  camp!  Then  we  break  them  apart  and  start  over!  It’s  the
best  fun  ever.  We  don’t  have  any  business  getting  involved  in  other  stuff
like  wars  and  quests.  I  certainly  haven’t  been  on  any  quests.  They’re  a
waste of time!”

Lacy raised her hand nervously. “But last night you said you wanted to

go on a—”

Drew glared at her, and Lacy’s voice died.
“Most  of  all,”  Drew  continued,  “we  certainly  don’t  need  our  image

tarnished by spies, do we, Piper?”

Piper tried to answer, but she couldn’t. There was no way Drew could

know about her dreams or her dad’s kidnapping, was there?

“It’s too bad you won’t be around,” Drew sighed. “But if you survive
your  little  quest,  don’t  worry,  I’ll  find  somebodyto  match  up  with  you.
Maybe  one  of  those  gross  Hephaestus  guys.  Or  Clovis?  He’s  pretty
repulsive.”  Drew  looked  her  over  with  a  mix  of  pity  and  disgust.
“Honestly,  I  didn’t  think  it  was  possible  for  Aphrodite  to  have  an  ugly
child, but … who was your father? Was he some sort of mutant, or—”

“Tristan McLean,” Piper snapped.
As  soon  as  she  said  it,  she  hated  herself.  She  never,  ever  played  the
“famous  dad”  card.  But  Drew  had  driven  her  over  the  edge.  “My  dad’s
Tristan McLean.”

The  stunned  silence  was  gratifying  for  a  few  seconds,  but  Piper  felt
ashamed  of  herself.  Everybody  turned  and  looked  at  The Poster, her dad
flexing his muscles for the whole world to see.

“Oh my god!” half the girls screamed at once.
“Sweet!”  a  guy  said.  “The  dude  with  the  sword  who  killed  that  other

dude in that movie?”

“He is so hot for an old guy,” a girl said, and then she blushed. “I mean

I’m sorry. I know he’s your dad. That’s so weird!”

“It’s weird, all right,” Piper agreed.
“Do you think you could get me his autograph?” another girl asked.
Piper forced a smile. She couldn’t say, If my dad survives....
“Yeah, no problem,” she managed.
The girl squealed in excitement, and more kids surged forward, asking

a dozen questions at once.

“Have you ever been on the set?”
“Do you live in a mansion?”
“Do you have lunch with movie stars?”
“Have you had your rite of passage?”
That one caught Piper off guard. “Rite of what?” she asked.
The girls and guys giggled and shoved each other around like this was

an embarrassing topic.

“The rite of passage for an Aphrodite child,” one explained. “You get
someone to fall in love with you. Then you break their heart. Dump them.
Once you do that, you’ve proven yourself worthy of Aphrodite.”

Piper stared at the crowd to see if they were joking. “Break someone’s

heart on purpose? That’s terrible!”
The others looked confused.
“Why?” a guy asked.
“Oh my god!” a girl said. “I bet Aphrodite broke your dad’s heart! I bet
he never loved anyone again, did he? That’s so romantic! When you have
your rite of passage, you can be just like Mom!”

“Forget it!” Piper yelled, a little louder than she’d intended. The other
kids backed away. “I’m not breaking somebody’s heart just for a stupid rite
of passage!”

Which of course gave Drew a chance to take back control. “Well, there
you go!” she cut in. “Silena said the same thing. She broke the tradition,
fell  in  love  with  that Beckendorf  boy, and stayed  in  love.  If  you  ask  me,
that’s why things ended tragically for her.”

“That’s  not  true!”  Lacy  squeaked,  but  Drew  glared  at  her,  and  she

immediately melted back into the crowd.

“Hardly matters,” Drew continued, “because, Piper, hon, you couldn’t
break  anyone’s  heart  anyway.  And  this  nonsense  about  your  dad  being

Tristan McLean—that’s so begging for attention.”

Several of the kids blinked uncertainly.
“You mean he’s not her dad?” one asked.
Drew rolled her eyes. “Please. Now, it’s time for breakfast, people, and
Piper here has to start that little quest. So let’s get her packed and get her
out of here!”

Drew broke up  the  crowd  and got  everyone  moving. She called  them
“hon”  and  “dear,”  but  her  tone  made  it  clear  she  expected  to  be  obeyed.
Mitchell  and  Lacy  helped  Piper  pack.  They  even  guarded  the  bathroom
while  Piper  went  in  and  changed  into  a  better  traveling  outfit.  The  hand-
me-downs  weren’t  fancy—thank  god—just  well-worn  jeans,  a  T-shirt,  a
comfortable  winter  coat,  and  hiking  boots  that  fit  perfectly.  She  strapped
her dagger, Katoptris, to her belt.

When Piper came out, she felt almost normal again. The other campers
were standing at their bunks while Drew came around and inspected. Piper
turned  to  Mitchell  and  Lacy  and  mouthed,  Thank  you.  Mitchell  nodded
grimly.  Lacy  flashed  a  full-braces  smile.  Piper  doubted  Drew  had  ever
thanked them for anything. She also noticed that the King of Sparta poster
had  been  wadded  up  and  thrown  in  the  trash.  Drew’s  orders,  no  doubt.
Even  though  Piper  had  wanted  to  take  the  poster  down  herself,  now  she
was totally steamed.

When  Drew  spotted  her,  she  clapped  in  mock  applause.  “Very  nice!
Our  little  quest  girl  all  dressed  in  Dumpster  clothes  again.  Now,  off  you
go! No need to eat breakfast with us. Good luck with … whatever. Bye!”

Piper shouldered her bag. She could feel everyone else’s eyes on her as
she  walked  to  the  door.  She  could  just  leave  and  forget  about  it.  That
would’ve  been  the  easy  thing.  What  did  she  care  about  this  cabin,  these
shallow kids?

Except that some of them had tried to help her. Some of them had even

stood up to Drew for her.

She turned at the door. “You know, you all don’t have to follow Drew’s

orders.”

The  other  kids  shifted.  Several  glanced  at  Drew,  but  she  looked  too

stunned to respond.

“Umm,” one managed, “she’s our head counselor.”

“She’s  a  tyrant,”  Piper  corrected.  “You  can  think  for  yourselves.

There’s got to be more to Aphrodite than this.”

“More than this,” one kid echoed.
“Think for ourselves,” a second muttered.
“People!”  Drew  screeched.  “Don’t  be  stupid!  She’s  charm-speaking

you.”

“No,” Piper said. “I’m just telling the truth.”
At least, Piper thought that was the case. She didn’t understand exactly
how this charmspeaking business worked, but she didn’t feel like she was
putting  any  special  power  into  her  words.  She  didn’t  want  to  win  an
argument  by  tricking  people.  That  would  make  her  no  better  than  Drew.
Piper  simply  meant  what  she  said.  Besides,  even 
tried
charmspeaking,  she  had  a  feeling  it  wouldn’t  work  very  well  on  another
charmspeaker like Drew.

if  she 

Drew sneered at her. “You may have a little power, Miss Movie Star.
But you don’t know the first thing about Aphrodite. You have such great
ideas? What do you think this cabin is about, then? Tell them. Then maybe
I’ll tell them a few things about you, huh?”

Piper wanted to make a withering retort, but her anger turned to panic.
She  was  a  spy  for  the  enemy,  just  like  Silena  Beauregard.  An  Aphrodite
traitor.  Did  Drew  know  about  that,  or  was  she  bluffing?  Under  Drew’s
glare, her confidence began to crumble.

“Not this,” Piper managed. “Aphrodite is not about this.”
Then  she  turned  and  stormed  out  before  the  others  could  see  her

blushing.

Behind  her, Drew started  laughing. “Not this?  Hear  that,  people?  She

doesn’t have a clue!”

Piper promised herself she would never ever go back to that cabin. She
blinked  away  her  tears  and  stormed  across  the  green,  not  sure  where  she
was going—until she saw the dragon swooping down from the sky.

“LEO?” SHE YELLED.

Sure  enough,  there  he  was,  sitting  atop  a  giant  bronze  death  machine
and  grinning  like  a  lunatic.  Even  before  he  landed,  the  camp  alarm  went
up. A conch horn blew. All the satyrs started screaming, “Don’t kill me!”
Half the camp ran outside in a mixture of pajamas and armor. The dragon
set down right in the middle of the green, and Leo yelled, “It’s cool! Don’t
shoot!”

Hesitantly, the archers lowered their bows. The warriors backed away,
keeping  their  spears  and  swords  ready.  They  made  a  loose  wide  ring
around the metal monster. Other demigods hid behind their cabin doors or
peeped out the windows. Nobody seemed anxious to get close.

Piper  couldn’t  blame  them.  The  dragon  was  huge.  It  glistened  in  the
morning sun like a living penny sculpture —different shades of copper and
bronze—a  sixty-foot-long  serpent  with  steel  talons  and  drill-bit  teeth  and
glowing ruby eyes. It had bat-shaped wings twice its length that unfurled
like  metallic  sails,  making  a  sound  like  coins  cascading  out  of  a  slot
machine every time they flapped.

“It’s beautiful,” Piper muttered. The other demigods stared at her like

she was insane.

The  dragon  reared  its  head  and  shot  a  column  of  fire  into  the  sky.
Campers  scrambled  away  and  hefted  their  weapons,  but  Leo  slid  calmly
off  the  dragon’s  back.  He  held  up  his  hands  like  he  was  surrendering,
except he still had that crazy grin on his face.

“People  of  Earth,  I  come  in  peace!”  he  shouted.  He  looked  like  he’d
been  rolling  around  in  the  campfire.  His  army  coat  and  his  face  were
smeared with soot. His hands were grease-stained, and he wore a new tool
belt around his waist. His eyes were bloodshot. His curly hair was so oily

it stuck up in porcupine quills, and he smelled strangely of Tabasco sauce.
But he looked absolutely delighted. “Festus is just saying hello!”

“That thing is dangerous!” an Ares girl shouted, brandishing her spear.

“Kill it now!”

“Stand down!” someone ordered.
To  Piper’s  surprise,  it  was  Jason.  He  pushed  through  the  crowd,

flanked by Annabeth and that girl from the Hephaestus cabin, Nyssa.

Jason gazed up at the dragon and shook his head in amazement. “Leo,

what have you done?”

“Found a ride!” Leo beamed. “You said I could go on the quest if I got
you a ride.  Well, I  got  you a class-A  metallic  flying  bad boy! Festus  can
take us anywhere!”

“It—has wings,” Nyssa stammered. Her jaw looked like it might drop

off her face.

“Yeah!” Leo said. “I found them and reattached them.”
“But it never had wings. Where did you find them?”
Leo hesitated, and Piper could tell he was hiding something.
“In  …  the  woods,”  he  said.  “Repaired  his  circuits,  too,  mostly,  so  no

more problems with him going haywire.”

“Mostly?” Nyssa asked.
The dragon’s head twitched. It tilted to one side and a stream of black

liquid—maybe oil, hopefully just oil—poured out of its ear, all over Leo.

“Just a few kinks to work out,” Leo said.
“But how did you survive … ?” Nyssa was still staring at the creature

in awe. “I mean, the fire breath …”

“I’m quick,” Leo said. “And lucky. Now, am I on this quest, or what?”
Jason  scratched  his  head.  “You  named  him  Festus?  You  know  that  in
Latin, ‘festus’ means ‘happy’? You want us to ride off to save the world on
Happy the Dragon?”

The dragon twitched and shuddered and flapped his wings.
“That’s  a  yes,  bro!”  Leo  said.  “Now,  um,  I’d  really  suggest  we  get
going, guys. I already picked up some supplies in the—um, in the woods.
And all these people with weapons are making Festus nervous.”

Jason frowned. “But we haven’t planned anything yet. We can’t just—”

“Go,” Annabeth said. She was the only one who didn’t look nervous at
all.  Her  expression  was  sad  and  wistful,  like  this  reminded  her  of  better
times.  “Jason,  you’ve  only  got  three  days  until  the  solstice  now,  and  you
should  never  keep  a  nervous  dragon  waiting.  This  is  certainly  a  good
omen. Go!”

Jason nodded. Then he smiled at Piper. “You ready, partner?”
Piper  looked  at  the  bronze  dragon  wings  shining  against  the  sky,  and

those talons that could’ve shredded her to pieces.

“You bet,” she said.

Flying on the dragon was the most amazing experience ever, Piper thought.
Up  high,  the  air  was  freezing  cold;  but  the  dragon’s  metal  hide
generated so much heat, it was like they were flying in a protective bubble.
Talk  about  seat  warmers!  And  the  grooves  in  the  dragon’s  back  were
designed like high-tech saddles, so they weren’t uncomfortable at all. Leo
showed  them  how  to  hook  their  feet  in  the  chinks  of  the  armor,  like  in
stirrups, and use the leather safety harnesses cleverly concealed under the
exterior plating. They sat single file: Leo in front, then Piper, then Jason,
and Piper was very aware of Jason right behind her. She wished he would
hold on to her, maybe wrap his arms around her waist; but sadly, he didn’t.
Leo used the reins to steer the dragon into the sky like he’d been doing
it  all  his  life.  The  metal  wings  worked  perfectly,  and  soon  the  coast  of
Long Island was just a hazy line behind them. They shot over Connecticut
and climbed into the gray winter clouds.

Leo grinned back at them. “Cool, right?”
“What if we get spotted?” Piper asked.
“The Mist,” Jason said. “It keeps mortals from seeing magic things. If

they spot us, they’ll probably mistake us for a small plane or something.”

Piper glanced over her shoulder. “You sure about that?”
“No,”  he  admitted.  Then  Piper  saw  he  was  clutching  a  photo  in  his

hand—a picture of a girl with dark hair.

She  gave  Jason  a  quizzical  look,  but  he  blushed  and  put  the  photo  in

his pocket. “We’re making good time. Probably get there by tonight.”

Piper wondered who the girl in the picture was, but she didn’t want to
ask; and if Jason didn’t volunteer the information, that wasn’t a good sign.

Had he remembered something about his life before? Was that a photo of
his real girlfriend?

Stop it, she thought. You’ll just torture yourself.
She asked a safer question. “Where are we heading?”
“To  find  the  god  of  the  North  Wind,”  Jason  said.  “And  chase  some

storm spirits.”

LEO WAS TOTALLY BUZZING.

The  expression  on  everyone’s  faces  when  he  flew  the  dragon  into

camp? Priceless! He thought his cabinmates were going to bust a lug nut.

Festus had been awesome too. He hadn’t blowtorched a single cabin or
eaten any satyrs, even if he did dribble a little oil from his ear. Okay, a lot
of oil. Leo could work on that later.

So maybe Leo didn’t seize the chance to tell everybody about Bunker 9
or the flying boat design. He needed some time to think about all that. He
could tell them when he came back.

If I come back, part of him thought.
Nah,  he’d  come  back.  He’d  scored  a  sweet  magic  tool  belt  from  the
bunker,  plus  a  lot  of  cool  supplies  now  safely  stowed  in  his  backpack.
Besides,  he  had  a  fire-breathing,  only  slightly  leaky  dragon  on  his  side.
What could go wrong?

Well, the control disk could bust, the bad part of him suggested. Festus

could eat you.

Okay, so the dragon wasn’t quite as fixed as Leo might’ve let on. He’d
worked  all  night  attaching  those  wings,  but  he  hadn’t  found  an  extra
dragon brain  anywhere  in  the  bunker. Hey, they  were  under a time  limit!
Three  days  until  the  solstice.  They  had  to  get  going.  Besides,  Leo  had
cleaned the disk pretty well. Most of the circuits were still good. It would
just have to hold together.

His bad side started to think, Yeah, but what if—
“Shut up, me,” Leo said aloud.
“What?” Piper asked.
“Nothing,” he said. “Long night. I think I’m hallucinating. It’s cool.”

Sitting in front, Leo couldn’t see their faces, but he assumed from their
silence that his friends were not pleased to have a sleepless, hallucinating
dragon driver.

“Just joking.” Leo decided it might be good to change the subject. “So
what’s the plan, bro? You said something about catching wind, or breaking
wind, or something?”

As  they  flew  over  New  England,  Jason  laid  out  the  game  plan:  First,

find some guy named Boreas and grill him for information—

“His  name  is  Boreas?”  Leo  had  to  ask.  “What  is  he,  the  God  of

Boring?”

Second, Jason continued, they had to find those venti that had attacked

them at the Grand Canyon—

“Can we  just call  them storm  spirits?”  Leo asked. “Venti makes  them

sound like evil espresso drinks.”

And  third,  Jason  finished,  they  had  to  find  out  who  the  storm  spirits

worked for, so they could find Hera and free her.

“So  you  want  to  look  for  Dylan,  the  nasty  storm  dude,  on  purpose,”
Leo  said.  “The  guy  who  threw  me  off  the  skywalk  and  sucked  Coach
Hedge into the clouds.”

“That’s about it,” Jason said. “Well … there may be a wolf involved,
too. But I think she’s friendly. She probably won’t eat us, unless we show
weakness.”

Jason  told  them  about  his  dream—the  big  nasty  mother  wolf  and  a

burned-out house with stone spires growing out of the swimming pool.
“Uh-huh,” Leo said. “But you don’t know where this place is.”
“Nope,” Jason admitted.
“There’s  also  giants,”  Piper  added.  “The  prophecy  said  the  giants’

revenge.”

“Hold on,” Leo said. “Giants—like more than one? Why can’t it be just

one giant who wants revenge?”

“I  don’t  think  so,”  Piper  said.  “I  remember  in  some  of  the  old  Greek

stories, there was something about an army of giants.”

“Great,” Leo muttered. “Of course, with our luck, it’s an army. So you
know  anything  else  about  these  giants?  Didn’t  you  do  a  bunch  of  myth
research for that movie with your dad?”

“Your dad’s an actor?” Jason asked.
Leo  laughed.  “I  keep  forgetting  about  your  amnesia.  Heh.  Forgetting

about amnesia. That’s funny. But yeah, her dad’s Tristan McLean.”

“Uh—Sorry, what was he in?”
“It  doesn’t  matter,”  Piper  said  quickly.  “The  giants—well,  there  were
lots  of  giants  in  Greek  mythology.  But  if  I’m  thinking  of  the  right  ones,
they  were  bad  news.  Huge,  almost  impossible  to  kill.  They  could  throw
mountains and stuff. I think they were related to the Titans. They rose from
the earth after Kronos lost the war—I mean the first Titan war, thousands
of  years  ago—and  they  tried  to  destroy  Olympus.  If  we’re  talking  about
the same giants—”

“Chiron  said  it  was  happening  again,”  Jason  remembered.  “The  last
chapter. That’s what he meant.  No wonder  he didn’t want us to  know all
the details.”

Leo  whistled.  “So  …  giants  who  can  throw  mountains.  Friendly
wolves that will eat us if we show weakness. Evil espresso drinks. Gotcha.
Maybe this isn’t the time to bring up my psycho babysitter.”

“Is that another joke?” Piper asked.
Leo told them about Tía Callida, who was really Hera, and how she’d
appeared to him at camp. He didn’t tell them about his fire abilities. That
was  still  a  touchy  subject,  especially  after  Nyssa  had  told  him  fire
demigods tended to destroy cities and stuff. Besides, then Leo would have
to get into how he’d caused his mom’s death, and … No. He wasn’t ready
to go there. He did manage to tell about the night she died, not mentioning
the  fire,  just  saying  the  machine  shop  collapsed.  It  was  easier  without
having to look at his friends, just keeping his eyes straight ahead as they
flew.

And  he  told  them  about  the  strange  woman  in  earthen  robes  who

seemed to be asleep, and seemed to know the future.

Leo  estimated  the  whole  state  of  Massachusetts  passed  below  them

before his friends spoke.

“That’s … disturbing,” Piper said.
“’Bout sums it up,” Leo agreed. “Thing is, everybody says don’t trust
Hera. She hates demigods. And the prophecy said we’d cause death if we
unleash her rage. So I’m wondering … why are we doing this?”

“She chose us,” Jason said. “All three of us. We’re the first of the seven
who have to gather for the Great Prophecy. This quest is the beginning of
something much bigger.”

That  didn’t  make  Leo  feel  any  better,  but  he  couldn’t  argue  with
Jason’s point. It did feel like this was the start of something huge. He just
wished that if there were four more demigods destined to help them, they’d
show  up  quick.  Leo  didn’t  want  to  hog  all  the  terrifying  life-threatening
adventures.

“Besides,”  Jason  continued,  “helping  Hera  is  the  only  way  I  can  get
back my memory. And that dark spire in my dream seemed to be feeding
on Hera’s energy. If that thing unleashes a king of the giants by destroying
Hera—”

“Not a good trade-off,” Piper  agreed.  “At least  Hera  is  on our side—
mostly.  Losing  her  would  throw  the  gods  into  chaos.  She’s  the  main  one
who  keeps  peace  in  the  family.  And  a  war  with  the  giants  could  be  even
more destructive than the Titan War.”

Jason  nodded.  “Chiron  also  talked  about  worse  forces  stirring  on  the
solstice, with it being a good time for dark magic, and all—something that
could awaken if Hera were sacrificed on that day. And this mistress who’s
controlling the storm spirits, the one who wants to kill all the demigods—”
“Might be that weird sleeping lady,” Leo finished. “Dirt Woman fully

awake? Not something I want to see.”

“But  who  is  she?”  Jason  asked.  “And  what  does  she  have  to  do  with

giants?”

Good  questions,  but  none  of  them  had  answers.  They  flew  in  silence
while  Leo  wondered  if  he’d  done  the  right  thing,  sharing  so  much.  He’d
never told anyone about that night at the warehouse. Even if he hadn’t give
them the whole story, it still felt strange, like he’d opened up his chest and
taken out all the gears that made him tick. His body was shaking, and not
from the cold. He hoped Piper, sitting behind him, couldn’t tell.

The  forge  and  dove  shall  break  the  cage.  Wasn’t  that  the  prophecy
line? That meant Piper and he would have to figure out how to break into
that magic  rock prison,  assuming  they  could  find  it. Then they’d  unleash
Hera’s rage, causing a lot of death. Well, that sounded fun! Leo had seen
Tía  Callida  in  action;  she  liked  knives,  snakes,  and  putting  babies  in
roaring fires. Yeah, definitely let’s unleash her rage. Great idea.

Festus kept flying. The wind got colder, and below them snowy forests
seemed  to  go  on  forever.  Leo  didn’t  know  exactly  where  Quebec  was.
He’d  told  Festus  to  take  them  to  the  palace  of  Boreas,  and  Festus  kept
going north. Hopefully, the dragon knew the way, and they wouldn’t end
up at the North Pole.

“Why don’t you get some sleep?” Piper said in his ear. “You were up

all night.”

Leo  wanted  to  protest,  but  the  word  sleep  sounded really  good. “You

won’t let me fall off?”

Piper  patted  his  shoulder.  “Trust  me,  Valdez.  Beautiful  people  never

lie.”

“Right,”  he  muttered.  He  leaned  forward  against  the  warm  bronze  of

the dragon’s neck, and closed his eyes.

IT SEEMED HE SLEPT ONLY FOR SECONDS, but when Piper shook him awake,
the daylight was fading.

“We’re here,” she said.
Leo rubbed the sleep out of his eyes. Below them, a city sat on a cliff
overlooking  a  river.  The  plains  around  it  were  dusted  with  snow,  but  the
city itself glowed warmly in the winter sunset. Buildings crowded together
inside high walls like a medieval town, way older than any place Leo had
seen before. In the center was an actual castle—at least Leo assumed it was
a castle—with massive red brick walls and a square tower with a peaked,
green gabled roof.

“Tell me that’s Quebec and not Santa’s workshop,” Leo said.
“Yeah,  Quebec  City,”  Piper  confirmed.  “One  of  the  oldest  cities  in

North America. Founded around sixteen hundred or so?”

Leo raised an eyebrow. “Your dad do a movie about that too?”
She  made  a  face  at  him,  which  Leo  was  used  to,  but  it  didn’t  quite
work  with  her  new  glamorous  makeup.  “I  read  sometimes,  okay?  Just
because Aphrodite claimed me, doesn’t mean I have to be an airhead.”
“Feisty!” Leo said. “So you know so much, what’s that castle?”
“A hotel, I think.”
Leo laughed. “No way.”
But as they got closer, Leo saw she was right. The grand entrance was
bustling with doormen, valets, and porters taking bags. Sleek black luxury
cars idled in the drive. People in elegant suits and winter cloaks hurried to
get out of the cold.

“The North Wind is staying in a hotel?” Leo said. “That can’t be—”
“Heads up, guys,” Jason interrupted. “We got company!”

Leo looked below and saw what Jason meant. Rising from the top of
the  tower  were  two  winged  figures—angry  angels,  with  nasty-looking
swords.

Festus  didn’t  like  the  angel  guys.  He  swooped  to  a  halt  in  midair,  wings
beating and talons bared, and made a rumbling sound in his throat that Leo
recognized. He was getting ready to blow fire.

“Steady, boy,” Leo muttered. Something told him the angels would not

take kindly to getting torched.

“I don’t like this,” Jason said. “They look like storm spirits.”
At first Leo thought he was right, but as the angels got closer, he could
see  they  were  much  more  solid  than  venti.  They  looked  like  regular
teenagers except for their icy white hair and feathery purple wings. Their
bronze swords were jagged, like icicles. Their faces looked similar enough
that they might’ve been brothers, but they definitely weren’t twins.

One  was  the  size  of  an  ox,  with  a  bright  red  hockey  jersey,  baggy
sweatpants, and black leather cleats. The guy clearly had been in too many
fights,  because  both  his  eyes  were  black,  and  when  he  bared  his  teeth,
several of them were missing.

The  other  guy  looked  like  he’d  just  stepped  off  one  of  Leo’s  mom’s
1980s rock album covers—Journey, maybe, or Hall & Oates, or something
even  lamer.  His  ice-white  hair  was  long  and  feathered  into  a  mullet.  He
wore pointy-toed leather shoes, designer pants that were way too tight, and
a god-awful silk shirt with the top three buttons open. Maybe he thought
he looked like a groovy love god, but the guy couldn’t have weighed more
than ninety pounds, and he had a bad case of acne.

The angels pulled up in front of the dragon and hovered there, swords

at the ready.

The hockey ox grunted. “No clearance.”
“’Scuse me?” Leo said.
“You have no flight plan on file,” explained the groovy love god. On
top of his other problems, he had a French accent so bad Leo was sure it
was fake. “This is restricted airspace.”

“Destroy them?” The ox showed off his gap-toothed grin.

The  dragon  began  to  hiss  steam,  ready  to  defend  them.  Jason

summoned his golden sword, but Leo cried, “Hold on!

Let’s have some manners here, boys. Can I at least find out who has the

honor of destroying me?”

“I am Cal!” the ox grunted. He looked very proud of himself, like he’d

taken a long time to memorize that sentence.

“That’s short for Calais,” the love god said. “Sadly, my brother cannot

say words with more than two syllables—”
“Pizza! Hockey! Destroy!” Cal offered.
“—which includes his own name,” the love god finished.
“I am Cal,” Cal repeated. “And this is Zethes! My brother!”
“Wow,” Leo said. “That was almost three sentences, man! Way to go.”
Cal grunted, obviously pleased with himself.
“Stupid  buffoon,”  his  brother  grumbled.  “They  make  fun  of  you.  But
no  matter.  I  am  Zethes,  which  is  short  for  Zethes.  And  the  lady  there—”
He winked at Piper, but the wink was more like a facial seizure. “She can
call  me  anything she likes.  Perhaps  she would like to  have dinner  with  a
famous demigod before we must destroy you?”

Piper  made  a sound like gagging  on  a cough drop. “That’s … a truly

horrifying offer.”

“It  is  no  problem.”  Zethes  wiggled  his  eyebrows.  “We  are  a  very

romantic people, we Boreads.”

“Boreads?” Jason cut in. “Do you mean, like, the sons of Boreas?”
“Ah,  so  you’ve  heard  of  us!”  Zethes  looked  pleased.  “We  are  our
father’s  gatekeepers.  So  you  understand,  we  cannot  have  unauthorized
people  flying  in  his  airspace  on  creaky  dragons,  scaring  the  silly  mortal
peoples.”

He  pointed below, and Leo saw  that the  mortals were  starting to  take
notice.  Several  were  pointing  up—not  with  alarm,  yet—more  with
confusion  and  annoyance,  like  the  dragon  was  a  traffic  helicopter  flying
too low.

“Which  is  sadly  why,  unless  this  is  an  emergency  landing,”  Zethes
said,  brushing  his  hair  out  of  his  acne-covered  face,  “we  will  have  to
destroy you painfully.”

“Destroy!” Cal agreed, with a little more enthusiasm than Leo thought

necessary.

“Wait!” Piper said. “This is an emergency landing.”
“Awww!” Cal looked so disappointed, Leo almost felt sorry for him.
Zethes studied Piper, which of course he’d already been doing. “How

does the pretty girl decide this is an emergency, then?”

“We  have  to  see  Boreas.  It’s  totally  urgent!  Please?”  She  forced  a
smile,  which  Leo  figured  must’ve  been  killing  her;  but  she  still  had  that
blessing  of  Aphrodite  thing  going  on,  and  she  looked  great.  Something
about her voice, too—Leo found himself believing every word. Jason was
nodding, looking absolutely convinced.

Zethes picked at his silk shirt, probably making sure it was still open
wide enough. “Well … I hate to disappoint a lovely lady, but you see, my
sister, she would have an avalanche if we allowed you—”

“And our dragon is malfunctioning!” Piper added. “It could crash any

minute!”

Festus shuddered helpfully, then turned his head and spilled gunk out

of his ear, splattering a black Mercedes in the parking lot below.

“No destroy?” Cal whimpered.
Zethes  pondered  the  problem.  Then  he  gave  Piper  another  spasmodic
wink. “Well, you are pretty. I mean, you’re right. A malfunctioning dragon
—this could be an emergency.”

“Destroy  them  later?”  Cal  offered,  which  was  probably  as  close  to

friendly as he ever got.

“It  will  take  some  explaining,”  Zethes  decided.  “Father  has  not  been

kind to visitors lately. But, yes. Come, faulty dragon people. Follow us.”

The  Boreads  sheathed  their  swords  and  pulled  smaller  weapons  from
their belts—or at least Leo thought they were weapons. Then the Boreads
switched  them  on,  and  Leo  realized  they  were  flashlights  with  orange
cones, like the ones traffic controller guys use on a runway. Cal and Zethes
turned and swooped toward the hotel’s tower.

Leo turned to his friends. “I love these guys. Follow them?”
Jason and Piper didn’t look eager.
“I guess,” Jason decided. “We’re here now. But I wonder why Boreas

hasn’t been kind to visitors.”

“Pfft,  he  just  hasn’t  met  us.”  Leo  whistled.  “Festus,  after  those

flashlights!”

As they got closer, Leo worried they’d crash into the tower. The Boreads
made right for the green gabled peak and didn’t slow down. Then a section
of the slanted roof slid open, revealing an entrance easily wide enough for
Festus. The top and bottom were lined with icicles like jagged teeth.

“This  cannot  be  good,”  Jason  muttered,  but  Leo  spurred  the  dragon

downward, and they swooped in after the Boreads.

They landed in what must have been the penthouse suite; but the place
had been hit by a flash freeze. The entry hall had vaulted ceilings forty feet
high,  huge  draped  windows,  and  lush  oriental  carpets.  A  staircase  at  the
back  of  the  room  led  up  to  another  equally  massive  hall,  and  more
corridors  branched  off  to  the  left  and  right.  But  the  ice  made  the  room’s
beauty  a  little  frightening.  When  Leo  slid  off  the  dragon,  the  carpet
crunched  under  his  feet.  A  fine  layer  of  frost  covered  the  furniture.  The
curtains  didn’t  budge  because  they  were  frozen  solid,  and  the  ice-coated
windows  let  in  weird  watery  light  from  the  sunset.  Even  the  ceiling  was
furry with icicles. As for the stairs, Leo was sure he’d slip and break his
neck if he tried to climb them.

“Guys,” Leo said, “fix the thermostat in here, and I would totally move

in.”

“Not  me.”  Jason  looked  uneasily  at  the  staircase.  “Something  feels

wrong. Something up there …”

Festus  shuddered  and  snorted  flames.  Frost  started  to  form  on  his

scales.

“No, no, no.” Zethes marched over, though how he could walk in those
pointy  leather  shoes,  Leo  had  no  idea.  “The  dragon  must  be  deactivated.
We can’t have fire in here. The heat ruins my hair.”
Festus growled and spun his drill-bit teeth.
“’S’okay,  boy.”  Leo  turned  to  Zethes.  “The  dragon’s  a  little  touchy

about the whole deactivation concept. But I’ve got a better solution.”

“Destroy?” Cal suggested.
“No, man. You gotta stop with the destroy talk. Just wait.”
“Leo,” Piper said nervously, “what are you—”

“Watch  and  learn,  beauty  queen.  When  I  was  repairing  Festus  last
night, I found all kinds of buttons. Some, you do not want to  know what
they do. But others … Ah, here we go.”

Leo  hooked  his  fingers  behind  the  dragon’s  left  foreleg.  He  pulled  a
switch, and the dragon shuddered from head to toe. Everyone backed away
as  Festus  folded  like  origami.  His  bronze  plating  stacked  together.  His
neck and tail  contracted  into his  body. His wings collapsed  and his  trunk
compacted until he was a rectangular metal wedge the size of a suitcase.

Leo tried to lift it, but the thing weighed about six billion pounds. “Um

… yeah. Hold on. I think—aha.”

He pushed another button. A handle flipped up on the top, and wheels

clicked out on the bottom.

“Ta-da!” he announced. “The world’s heaviest carry-on bag!”
“That’s impossible,” Jason said. “Something that big couldn’t—”
“Stop!” Zethes ordered. He and Cal both drew their swords and glared

at Leo.

Leo  raised  his  hands.  “Okay  …  what’d  I  do?  Stay  calm,  guys.  If  it

bothers you that much, I don’t have to take the dragon as carry-on—”

“Who  are  you?”  Zethes  shoved  the  point  of  his  sword  against  Leo’s

chest. “A child of the South Wind, spying on us?”

“What?  No!”  Leo  said.  “Son  of  Hephaestus.  Friendly  blacksmith,  no

harm to anyone!”

Cal growled. He put his face up to Leo’s, and he definitely wasn’t any
prettier at point-blank, with his bruised eyes and bashed-in mouth. “Smell
fire,” he said. “Fire is bad.”

“Oh.” Leo’s heart raced. “Yeah, well … my clothes are kind of singed,

and I’ve been working with oil, and—”

“No!”  Zethes  pushed  Leo  back  at  sword  point.  “We  can  smell  fire,
demigod. We assumed it was from the creaky dragon, but now the dragon
is a suitcase. And I still smell fire … on you.”

If  it  hadn’t  been  like  three  degrees  in  the  penthouse,  Leo  would’ve
started  sweating.  “Hey  …  look  …  I  don’t  know—”  He  glanced  at  his
friends desperately. “Guys, a little help?”

Jason  already  had  his  gold  coin  in  his  hand.  He  stepped  forward,  his
eyes  on  Zethes.  “Look,  there’s  been  a  mistake.  Leo  isn’t  a  fire  guy.  Tell

them, Leo. Tell them you’re not a fire guy.”

“Um …”
“Zethes?”  Piper  tried  her  dazzling  smile  again,  though  she  looked  a
little too nervous and cold to pull it off. “We’re all friends here. Put down
your swords and let’s talk.”

“The  girl  is  pretty,”  Zethes  admitted,  “and  of  course  she  cannot  help
being attracted to my amazingness; but sadly, I cannot romance her at this
time.”  He  poked  his  sword  point  farther  into  Leo’s  chest,  and  Leo  could
feel the frost spreading across his shirt, turning his skin numb.

He wished he could reactivate Festus. He needed some backup. But it
would’ve  taken  several  minutes,  even  if  he  could  reach  the  button,  with
two purple-winged crazy guys in his path.

“Destroy him now?” Cal asked his brother.
Zethes nodded. “Sadly, I think—”
“No,” Jason insisted. He sounded calm enough, but Leo figured he was
about  two  seconds  away  from  flipping  that  coin  and  going  into  full
gladiator mode. “Leo’s just a son of Hephaestus. He’s no threat. Piper here
is a daughter of Aphrodite. I’m the son of Zeus. We’re on a peaceful …”

Jason’s  voice  faltered,  because  both  Boreads  had  suddenly  turned  on

him.

“What did you say?” Zethes demanded. “You are the son of Zeus?”
“Um  …  yeah,”  Jason  said.  “That’s  a  good  thing,  right?  My  name  is

Jason.”

Cal  looked  so  surprised,  he  almost  dropped  his  sword.  “Can’t  be

Jason,” he said. “Doesn’t look the same.”

Zethes stepped forward and squinted at Jason’s face. “No, he is not our
Jason.  Our  Jason  was  more  stylish.  Not  as  much  as  me—but  stylish.
Besides, our Jason died millennia ago.”

“Wait,” Jason said. “Your Jason … you mean  the  original Jason?  The

Golden Fleece guy?”

“Of course,” Zethes said. “We were his crewmates aboard his ship, the
Argo, in the old times, when we were mortal demigods. Then we accepted
immortality to serve our father, so I could look this good for all time, and
my silly brother could enjoy pizza and hockey.”

“Hockey!” Cal agreed.

“But  Jason—our  Jason—he  died  a  mortal  death,”  Zethes  said.  “You

can’t be him.”

“I’m not,” Jason agreed.
“So, destroy?” Cal asked. Clearly the conversation was giving his two

brain cells a serious workout.

“No,” Zethes said regretfully. “If he is a son of Zeus, he could be the

one we’ve been watching for.”

“Watching  for?”  Leo  asked.  “You  mean  like  in  a  good  way:  you’ll
shower him with fabulous prizes? Or watching for like in a bad way: he’s
in trouble?”

A girl’s voice said, “That depends on my father’s will.”
Leo looked up the staircase. His heart nearly stopped. At the top stood
a  girl  in  a  white  silk  dress.  Her  skin  was  unnaturally  pale,  the  color  of
snow,  but  her  hair  was  a  lush  mane  of  black,  and  her  eyes  were  coffee
brown. She focused on Leo with no expression, no smile, no friendliness.
But it didn’t matter. Leo was in love. She was the most dazzling girl he’d
ever seen.

Then  she  looked  at  Jason  and  Piper,  and  seemed  to  understand  the

situation immediately.

“Father will want to see the one called Jason,” the girl said.
“Then it is him?” Zethes asked excitedly.
“We’ll see,” the girl said. “Zethes, bring our guests.”
Leo grabbed the handle of his bronze dragon suitcase. He wasn’t sure
how he’d lug it up the stairs, but he had to get next to that girl and ask her
some important questions—like her e-mail address and phone number.

Before  he  could  take  a  step,  she  froze  him  with  a  look.  Not  literally

froze, but she might as well have.

“Not you, Leo Valdez,” she said.
In  the  back  of  his  mind,  Leo  wondered  how  she  knew  his  name;  but

mostly he was just concentrating on how crushed he felt.

“Why  not?”  He  probably  sounded  like  a  whiny  kindergartner,  but  he

couldn’t help it.

“You cannot be in the presence of my father,” the girl said. “Fire and

ice—it would not be wise.”

“We’re  going  together,”  Jason  insisted,  putting  his  hand  on  Leo’s

shoulder, “or not at all.”

The  girl  tilted  her  head,  like  she  wasn’t  used  to  people  refusing  her
orders.  “He  will  not  be  harmed,  Jason  Grace,  unless  you  make  trouble.
Calais, keep Leo Valdez here. Guard him, but do not kill him.”

Cal pouted. “Just a little?”
“No,” the girl insisted. “And take care of his interesting suitcase, until

Father passes judgment.”

Jason  and  Piper  looked  at  Leo,  their  expressions  asking  him  a  silent

question: How do you want to play this?

Leo  felt  a  surge  of  gratitude.  They  were  ready  to  fight  for  him.  They
wouldn’t leave him alone with the hockey ox. Part of him wanted to go for
it,  bust  out  his  new  tool  belt  and  see  what  he  could  do,  maybe  even
summon  a  fireball  or  two  and  warm  this  place  up.  But  the  Boread  guys
scared him. And that gorgeous girl scared him more, even if he still wanted
her number.

“It’s  fine,  guys,”  he  said.  “No  sense  causing  trouble  if  we  don’t  have

to. You go ahead.”

“Listen to your friend,” the pale girl said. “Leo Valdez will be perfectly
safe. I wish I could say the same for you, son of Zeus. Now come, King
Boreas is waiting.”

JASON  DIDN’T  WANT  TO  LEAVE  LEO,  but  he  was  starting  to  think  that
hanging out with Cal the hockey jock might be the least dangerous option
in this place.

As they climbed the icy staircase, Zethes stayed behind them, his blade
drawn.  The  guy  might’ve  looked  like  a  disco-era  reject,  but  there  was
nothing funny about his sword. Jason figured one hit from that thing would
probably turn him into a Popsicle.

Then there was the ice princess. Every once in a while she’d turn and
give  Jason  a  smile,  but  there  was  no  warmth  in  her  expression.  She
regarded  Jason  like  he  was  an  especially  interesting  science  specimen—
one she couldn’t wait to dissect.

If  these  were  Boreas’s  kids,  Jason  wasn’t  sure  he  wanted  to  meet
Daddy. Annabeth had told him Boreas was the friendliest of the wind gods.
Apparently that meant he didn’t kill heroes quite as fast as the others did.

Jason worried that he’d led his friends into a trap. If things went bad,
he wasn’t sure he could get them out alive. Without thinking about it, he
took Piper’s hand for reassurance.

She raised her eyebrows, but she didn’t let go.
“It’ll be fine,” she promised. “Just a talk, right?”
At the top of the stairs, the ice princess looked back and noticed them
holding  hands.  Her  smile  faded.  Suddenly  Jason’s  hand  in  Piper’s  turned
ice cold—burning cold. He let go, and his fingers were smoking with frost.
So were Piper’s.

“Warmth  is  not  a  good  idea  here,”  the  princess  advised,  “especially

when I am your best chance of staying alive. Please, this way.”
Piper gave him a nervous frown like, What was that about?
Jason  didn’t  have  an  answer.  Zethes  poked  him  in  the  back  with  his
icicle  sword,  and  they  followed  the  princess  down  a  massive  hallway

decked in frosty tapestries.

Freezing  winds  blew  back  and  forth,  and  Jason’s  thoughts  moved
almost as fast. He’d had a lot of time to think while they rode the dragon
north, but he felt as confused as ever.

Thalia’s picture was still in his pocket, though he didn’t need to look at
it anymore. Her image had burned itself into his mind. It was bad enough
not remembering his past, but to know he had a sister out there somewhere
who  might  have  answers  and  to  have  no  way  of  finding  her—that  just
drove him up the wall.

In  the  picture,  Thalia  looked  nothing  like  him.  They  both  had  blue
eyes,  but  that  was  it.  Her  hair  was  black.  Her  complexion  was  more
Mediterranean. Her facial features were sharper—like a hawk’s.

Still, Thalia looked so familiar. Hera had left him just enough memory
that  he  could  be  certain  Thalia  was  his  sister.  But  Annabeth  had  acted
completely surprised when he’d told her, like she’d never heard of Thalia’s
having  a  brother.  Did  Thalia  even  know  about  him?  How  had  they  been
separated?

Hera had taken those memories. She’d stolen everything from Jason’s
past, plopped him into a new life, and now she expected him to save her
from  some  prison  just  so  he  could  get  back  what  she’d  taken.  It  made
Jason so angry, he wanted to walk away, let Hera rot in that cage: but he
couldn’t. He was hooked. He had to know more, and that made him even
more resentful.

“Hey.” Piper touched his arm. “You still with me?”
“Yeah … yeah, sorry.”
He was grateful for Piper. He needed a friend, and he was glad she’d
started  losing  the  Aphrodite  blessing.  The  makeup  was  fading.  Her  hair
was slowly going back to its old choppy style with the little braids down
the sides. It made her look more real, and as far as Jason was concerned,
more beautiful.

He was sure now that they’d never known each other before the Grand
Canyon. Their relationship was just a trick of the Mist in Piper’s mind. But
the longer he spent with her, the more he wished it had been real.

Stop  that,  he  told  himself.  It  wasn’t  fair  to  Piper,  thinking  that  way.
Jason had no idea what was waiting for him back in his old life—or who

might be waiting. But he was pretty sure his past wouldn’t mix with Camp
Half-Blood.  After  this  quest,  who  knew  what  would  happen?  Assuming
they even survived.

At  the  end  of  the  hallway  they  found  themselves  in  front  of  a  set  of
oaken doors carved with a map of the world. In each corner was a man’s
bearded face, blowing wind. Jason was pretty sure he’d seen maps like this
before. But in this version, all the wind guys were Winter, blowing ice and
snow from every corner of the world.

The  princess  turned.  Her  brown  eyes  glittered,  and  Jason  felt  like  he

was a Christmas present she was hoping to open.

“This is the throne room,” she said. “Be on your best behavior, Jason
Grace.  My  father  can  be  …  chilly.  I  will  translate  for  you,  and  try  to
encourage  him  to  hear  you  out.  I  do  hope  he  spares  you.  We  could  have
such fun.”

Jason guessed this girl’s definition of fun was not the same as his.
“Um, okay,” he managed. “But really, we’re just here for a little talk.

We’ll be leaving right afterward.”

The girl smiled. “I love heroes. So blissfully ignorant.”
Piper  rested  her  hand  on  her  dagger.  “Well,  how  about  you  enlighten
us? You say you’re going to translate for us, and we don’t even know who
you are. What’s your name?”

The girl sniffed with distaste. “I suppose I shouldn’t be surprised you
don’t recognize me. Even in the ancient times the Greeks did not know me
well.  Their  island  homes  were  too  warm,  too  far  from  my  domain.  I  am
Khione, daughter of Boreas, goddess of snow.”

She  stirred  the  air  with  her  finger,  and  a  miniature  blizzard  swirled

around her—big, fluffy flakes as soft as cotton.

“Now, come,” Khione said. The oaken doors blew open, and cold blue

light spilled out of the room. “Hopefully you will survive your little talk.”

IF  THE  ENTRY  HALL  HAD  BEEN  COLD,  the  throne  room  was  like  a  meat
locker.

Mist hung in the air. Jason shivered, and his breath steamed. Along the
walls, purple tapestries showed scenes of snowy forests, barren mountains,
and glaciers. High above, ribbons of colored light—the aurora borealis—
pulsed along the ceiling. A layer of snow covered the floor, so Jason had to
step carefully. All around the room stood life-size ice sculpture warriors—
some  in  Greek  armor,  some  medieval,  some  in  modern  camouflage—all
frozen in various attack positions, swords raised, guns locked and loaded.

At  least  Jason  thought  they  were  sculptures.  Then  he  tried  to  step
between two Greek spearmen, and they moved with surprising speed, their
joints  cracking  and  spraying  ice  crystals  as  they  crossed  their  javelins  to
block Jason’s path.

From the far end of the hall, a man’s voice rang out in a language that
sounded like French. The room was so long and misty, Jason couldn’t see
the  other  end;  but  whatever  the  man  said,  the  ice  guards  uncrossed  their
javelins.

“It’s  fine,”  Khione  said.  “My  father  has  ordered  them  not  to  kill  you

just yet.”

“Super,” Jason said.
Zethes prodded him in the back with his sword. “Keep moving, Jason

Junior.”

“Please don’t call me that.”
“My  father  is  not  a  patient  man,”  Zethes  warned,  “and  the  beautiful
Piper, sadly, is losing her magic hairdo very fast. Later, perhaps, I can lend
her something from my wide assortment of hair products.”

“Thanks,” Piper grumbled.

They  kept  walking,  and  the  mist  parted  to  reveal  a  man  on  an  ice
throne.  He  was  sturdily  built,  dressed  in  a  stylish  white  suit  that  seemed
woven  from  snow,  with  dark  purple  wings  that  spread  out  to  either  side.
His  long  hair  and  shaggy  beard  were  encrusted  with  icicles,  so  Jason
couldn’t  tell  if  his  hair  was  gray  or  just  white  with  frost.  His  arched
eyebrows made him look angry, but his eyes twinkled more warmly than
his  daughter’s—as  if  he  might  have  a  sense  of  humor  buried  somewhere
under that permafrost. Jason hoped so.

“Bienvenu,” the king said. “Je suis Boreas le Roi. Et vous?”
Khione  the  snow  goddess  was  about  to  speak,  but  Piper  stepped

forward and curtsied.

“Votre Majesté,” she said, “ je suis Piper McLean. Et c’est Jason, fils

de Zeus.”

The  king  smiled  with  pleasant  surprise.  “Vous  parlez  français?  Très

bien!”

“Piper,  you  speak  French?”  Jason  asked.  Piper  frowned.  “No.  Why?”
“You just spoke French.” Piper blinked. “I did?” The king said something
else, and Piper nodded. “Oui,

Votre Majesté.”
The king laughed and clapped his hands, obviously delighted. He said
a  few  more  sentences  then  swept  his  hand  toward  his  daughter  as  if
shooing her away.

Khione looked miffed. “The king says—”
“He says I’m a daughter of Aphrodite,” Piper interrupted, “so naturally
I  can  speak  French,  which  is  the  language  of  love.  I  had  no  idea.  His
Majesty says Khione won’t have to translate now.”

Behind them, Zethes snorted, and Khione shot him a murderous look.

She bowed stiffly to her father and took a step back.

The king sized up Jason, and Jason decided it would be a good idea to
bow. “Your Majesty, I’m Jason Grace. Thank you for, um, not killing us.
May I ask … why does a Greek god speak French?”

Piper had another exchange with the king.
“He  speaks  the  language  of  his  host  country,”  Piper  translated.  “He
says all gods do this. Most Greek gods speak English, as they now reside
in  the  United  States,  but  Boreas  was  never  welcomed  in  their  realm.  His

domain  was  always  far  to  the  north.  These  days  he  likes  Quebec,  so  he
speaks French.”

The king said something else, and Piper turned pale.
“The king says …” She faltered. “He says—”
“Oh, allow me,” Khione said. “My father says he has orders to kill you.

Did I not mention that earlier?”

Jason  tensed.  The  king  was  still  smiling  amiably,  like  he’d  just

delivered great news.

“Kill us?” Jason said. “Why?”
“Because,” the king said, in heavily accented English, “my lord Aeolus

has commanded it.”

Boreas  rose.  He  stepped  down  from  his  throne  and  furled  his  wings
against his back. As he approached, Khione and Zethes bowed. Jason and
Piper followed their example.

“I shall deign to speak your language,” Boreas said, “as Piper McLean
has honored me in mine. Toujours, I have had a fondness for the children
of  Aphrodite.  As  for  you,  Jason  Grace,  my  master  Aeolus  would  not
expect me to kill a son of Lord Zeus … without first hearing you out.”

Jason’s  gold  coin  seemed  to  grow  heavy  in  his  pocket.  If  he  were
forced to fight, he didn’t like his chances. Two seconds at least to summon
his blade. Then he’d be facing a god, two of his children, and an army of
freeze-dried warriors.

“Aeolus is the master of the winds, right?” Jason asked. “Why would

he want us dead?”

“You  are  demigods,”  Boreas  said,  as  if  this  explained  everything.
“Aeolus’s  job  is  to  contain  the  winds,  and  demigods  have  always  caused
him  many  headaches.  They  ask  him  for  favors.  They  unleash  winds  and
cause  chaos.  But  the  final  insult  was  the  battle  with  Typhon  last
summer…”

Boreas  waved  his  hand,  and  a  sheet  of  ice  like  a  flat-screen  TV
appeared in the air. Images of a battle flickered across the surface—a giant
wrapped  in  storm  clouds,  wading  across  a  river  toward  the  Manhattan
skyline. Tiny, glowing figures—the gods, Jason guessed—swarmed around
him  like  angry  wasps,  pounding  the  monster  with  lightning  and  fire.

Finally the river erupted in a massive whirlpool, and the smoky form sank
beneath the waves and disappeared.

“The storm giant, Typhon,” Boreas explained. “The first time the gods
defeated him, eons ago, he did not die quietly. His death released a host of
storm spirits—wild winds that answered to no one. It was Aeolus’s job to
track them all down and imprison them in  his  fortress.  The other  gods—
they  did  not  help.  They  did  not  even  apologize  for  the  inconvenience.  It
took Aeolus centuries to track down all the storm spirits, and naturally this
irritated him. Then, last summer, Typhon was defeated again—”

“And his death released another wave of venti,” Jason guessed. “Which

made Aeolus even angrier.”

“C’est vrai,” Boreas agreed.
“But, Your Majesty,” Piper said, “the gods had no choice but to battle
Typhon. He was going to destroy Olympus! Besides, why punish demigods
for that?”

The  king  shrugged.  “Aeolus  cannot  take  out  his  anger  on  the  gods.
They are his bosses, and very powerful. So he gets even with the demigods
who helped them in the war. He issued orders to us: demigods who come
to us for aid are no longer to be tolerated. We are to crush your little mortal
faces.”

There was an uncomfortable silence.
“That  sounds  …  extreme,”  Jason  ventured.  “But  you’re  not  going  to
crush  our  faces  yet,  right?  You’re  going  to  listen  to  us  first,  ’cause  once
you hear about our quest—”

“Yes,  yes,”  the  king  agreed.  “You  see,  Aeolus  also  said  that  a  son  of
Zeus might seek my aid, and if this happened, I should listen to you before
destroying you, as you might—how did he put it?—make all our lives very
interesting. I am only obligated to listen, however. After that, I am free to
pass judgment as I see fit. But I will listen first. Khione wishes this also. It
may be that we will not kill you.”

Jason felt like he could almost breathe again. “Great. Thanks.”
“Do  not  thank  me.”  Boreas smiled. “There  are  many  ways  you could
make  our  lives  interesting.  Sometimes  we  keep  demigods  for  our
amusement, as you can see.”

He gestured around the room to the various ice statues.

Piper  made  a  strangled  noise.  “You  mean—they’re  all  demigods?

Frozen demigods? They’re alive?”

“An interesting question,” Boreas conceded, as if it had never occurred
to him before. “They do not move unless they are obeying my orders. The
rest  of  the  time,  they  are  merely  frozen.  Unless  they  were  to  melt,  I
suppose, which would be very messy.”

Khione stepped behind Jason and put her cold fingers on his neck. “My
father gives me such lovely presents,” she murmured in his ear. “Join our
court. Perhaps I’ll let your friends go.”

“What?” Zethes broke in. “If Khione gets this one, then I deserve the

girl. Khione always gets more presents!”

“Now,  children,”  Boreas  said  sternly.  “Our  guests  will  think  you  are
spoiled!  Besides,  you  moved  too  fast.  We  have  not  even  heard  the
demigod’s  story  yet.  Then  we  will  decide  what  to  do  with  them.  Please,
Jason Grace, entertain us.”

Jason felt his brain shutting down. He didn’t look at Piper for fear he’d
completely  lose  it.  He’d  gotten  them  into  this,  and  now  they  were  going
die—or  worse,  they’d  be  amusements  for  Boreas’s  children  and  end  up
frozen forever in this throne room, slowly corroding from freezer burn.

Khione purred and stroked his neck. Jason didn’t plan it, but electricity
sparked  along  his  skin.  There  was  loud  pop,  and  Khione  flew  backward,
skidding across the floor.

Zethes  laughed.  “That  is  good!  I’m  glad  you  did  that,  even  though  I

have to kill you now.”

For  a  moment,  Khione  was  too  stunned  to  react.  Then  the  air  around

her began to swirl with a micro-blizzard. “You dare—”

“Stop,” Jason ordered, with as much force as he could muster. “You’re
not going to kill us. And you’re not going to keep us. We’re on a quest for
the queen of the gods herself, so unless you want Hera busting down your
doors, you’re going to let us go.”

He sounded a lot more confident than he felt, but it got their attention.
Khione’s blizzard swirled to a stop. Zethes lowered his sword. They both
looked uncertainly at their father.

“Hmm,”  Boreas  said.  His  eyes  twinkled,  but  Jason  couldn’t  tell  if  it
was with anger or amusement. “A son of Zeus, favored by Hera? This is

definitely a first. Tell us your story.”

Jason would’ve botched it right there. He hadn’t been expecting to get

the chance to talk, and now that he could, his voice abandoned him.

Piper  saved  him.  “Your  Majesty.”  She  curtsied  again  with  incredible
poise, considering her life was on the line. She told Boreas the whole story,
from the Grand Canyon to the prophecy, much better and faster than Jason
could have.

“All  we  ask  for  is  guidance,”  Piper  concluded.  “These  storm  spirits
attacked us, and they’re working for some evil mistress. If we find them,
maybe we can find Hera.”

The king stroked the icicles in his beard. Out the windows, night had
fallen, and the only light came from the aurora borealis overhead, washing
everything in red and blue.

“I  know  of  these  storm  spirits,”  Boreas  said.  “I  know  where  they  are

kept, and of the prisoner they took.”

“You mean Coach Hedge?” Jason asked. “He’s alive?”
Boreas waved aside the question. “For now. But the one who controls
these  storm  winds  …  It  would  be  madness  to  oppose  her.  You  would  be
better staying here as frozen statues.”

“Hera’s  in  trouble,”  Jason  said.  “In  three  days  she’s  going  to  be—I
don’t  know—consumed,  destroyed,  something.  And  a  giant  is  going  to
rise.”

“Yes,”  Boreas  agreed.  Was  it  Jason’s  imagination,  or  did  he  shoot
Khione  an  angry  look?  “Many  horrible  things  are  waking.  Even  my
children  do  not  tell  me  all  the  news  they  should.  The  Great  Stirring  of
monsters  that  began  with  Kronos—your  father  Zeus  foolishly  believed  it
would end when the Titans were defeated. But just as it was before, so it is
now.  The  final  battle  is  yet  to  come,  and  the  one  who  will  wake  is  more
terrible than any Titan. Storm spirits—these are only beginning. The earth
has  many  more  horrors  to  yield  up.  When  monsters  no  longer  stay  in
Tartarus, and souls are no longer confined to Hades … Olympus has good
reason to fear.”

Jason  wasn’t  sure  what  all  this  meant,  but  he  didn’t  like  the  way

Khione was smiling—like this was her definition of fun.

“So you’ll help us?” Jason asked the king.

Boreas scowled. “I did not say that.”
“Please, Your Majesty,” Piper said.
Everyone’s  eyes  turned  toward  her.  She  had  to  be  scared  out  of  her
mind,  but  she  looked  beautiful  and  confident—and  it  had  nothing  to  do
with  the  blessing  of  Aphrodite.  She  looked  herself  again,  in  day-old
traveling clothes with choppy hair and no makeup. But she almost glowed
with  warmth  in  that  cold  throne  room.  “If  you  tell  us  where  the  storm
spirits  are,  we  can  capture  them  and  bring  them  to  Aeolus.  You’d  look
good  in  front  of  your  boss.  Aeolus  might  pardon  us  and  the  other
demigods. We could even rescue Gleeson Hedge. Everyone wins.”

“She’s pretty,” Zethes mumbled. “I mean, she’s right.”
“Father, don’t listen to her,” Khione said. “She’s a child of Aphrodite.

She dares to charmspeak a god? Freeze her now!”

Boreas  considered  this.  Jason  slipped  his  hand  in  his  pocket  and  got
ready to bring out the gold coin. If things went wrong, he’d have to move
fast.

The  movement  caught  Boreas’s  eye.  “What  is  that  on  your  forearm,

demigod?”

Jason  hadn’t  realized  his  coat  sleeve  had  gotten  pushed  up,  revealing

the edge of his tattoo. Reluctantly, he showed Boreas his marks.

The god’s eyes widened. Khione actually hissed and stepped away.
Then Boreas did something unexpected. He laughed so loudly, an icicle
cracked  from  the  ceiling  and  crashed  next  to  his  throne.  The  god’s  form
began to flicker. His beard disappeared. He grew taller and thinner, and his
clothes  changed  into  a  Roman  toga,  lined  with  purple.  His  head  was
crowned  with  a frosty laurel  wreath,  and a gladius—a  Roman  sword  like
Jason’s—hung at his side.

“Aquilon,”  Jason  said,  though  where  he  got  the  god’s  Roman  name

from, he had no idea.

The god inclined his head. “You recognize me better in this form, yes?

And yet you said you came from Camp Half-Blood?”
Jason shifted his feet. “Uh … yes, Your Majesty.”
“And Hera sent you there…” The winter god’s eyes were full of mirth.
“I understand now. Oh, she plays a dangerous game. Bold, but dangerous!

No wonder Olympus is closed. They must be trembling at the gamble she
has taken.”

“Jason,”  Piper  said  nervously,  “why  did  Boreas  change  shape?  The

toga, the wreath. What’s going on?”

“It’s  his  Roman  form,”  Jason  said.  “But  what’s  going  on—I  don’t

know.”

The  god  laughed.  “No,  I’m  sure  you  don’t.  This  should  be  very

interesting to watch.”

“Does that mean you’ll let us go?” Piper asked.
“My dear,” Boreas said, “there is no reason for me to kill you. If Hera’s
plan fails, which I think it will, you will tear each other apart. Aeolus will
never have to worry about demigods again.”

Jason  felt  as  if  Khione’s  cold  fingers  were  on  his  neck  again,  but  it
wasn’t  her—it  was  just  the  feeling  that  Boreas  was  right.  That  sense  of
wrongness  which  had  bothered  Jason  since  he  got  to  Camp  Half-Blood,
and  Chiron’s  comment  about  his  arrival  being  disastrous—Boreas  knew
what they meant.

“I don’t suppose you could explain?” Jason asked.
“Oh, perish the thought! It is not for me to interfere in Hera’s plan. No
wonder she took your memory.” Boreas chuckled, apparently still having a
great time imagining demigods tearing each other apart. “You know, I have
a reputation as a helpful wind god. Unlike my brethren, I’ve been known
to  fall  in  love  with  mortals.  Why,  my  sons  Zethes  and  Calais  started  as
demigods—”

“Which explains why they are idiots,” Khione growled.
“Stop  it!”  Zethes  snapped  back.  “Just  because  you  were  born  a  full

goddess—”

“Both of you, freeze,” Boreas ordered. Apparently, that word carried a
lot  of  weight  in  the  household,  because  the  two  siblings  went  absolutely
still.  “Now,  as  I  was  saying,  I  have  a  good  reputation,  but  it  is  rare  that
Boreas  plays  an  important  role  in  the  affairs  of  gods.  I  sit  here  in  my
palace,  at  the  edge  of  civilization,  and  so  rarely  have  amusements.  Why,
even that fool Notus, the South Wind, gets spring break in Cancún. What
do  I  get?  A  winter  festival  with  naked  Québécois  rolling  around  in  the
snow!”

“I like the winter festival,” Zethes muttered.
“My  point,”  Boreas  snapped,  “is  that  I  now  have  a  chance  to  be  the
center.  Oh,  yes,  I  will  let  you  go  on  this  quest.  You  will  find  your  storm
spirits in the windy city, of course. Chicago—”

“Father!” Khione protested.
Boreas ignored his daughter. “If you can capture the winds, you may be
able to gain safe entrance to the court of Aeolus. If by some miracle you
succeed, be sure to tell him you captured the winds on my orders.”

“Okay,  sure,”  Jason  said.  “So  Chicago  is  where  we’ll  find  this  lady

who’s controlling the winds? She’s the one who’s trapped Hera?”

“Ah.”  Boreas  grinned.  “Those  are  two  different  questions,  son  of

Jupiter.”

Jupiter, Jason noticed. Before, he called me son of Zeus.
“The  one  who  controls  the  winds,”  Boreas  continued,  “yes,  you  will
find her in Chicago. But she is only a servant—a servant who is very likely
to  destroy  you.  If  you  succeed  against  her  and  take  the  winds,  then  you
may  go  to  Aeolus.  Only  he  has  knowledge  of  all  the  winds  on  the  earth.
All  secrets  come  to  his  fortress  eventually.  If  anyone  can  tell  you  where
Hera  is  imprisoned,  it  is  Aeolus.  As  for  who  you  will  meet  when  you
finally  find  Hera’s  cage—truly,  if  I  told  you  that,  you  would  beg  me  to
freeze you.”

“Father,” Khione protested, “you can’t simply let them—”
“I can do what I like,” he said, his voice hardening. “I am still master

here, am I not?”

The way Boreas glared at his daughter, it was obvious they had some
ongoing argument. Khione’s eyes flashed with anger, but she clenched her
teeth. “As you wish, Father.”

“Now go, demigods,” Boreas said, “before I change my mind. Zethes,

escort them out safely.”

They all bowed, and the god of the North Wind dissolved into mist.

Back in the entry hall, Cal and Leo were waiting for them. Leo looked cold
but unharmed. He’d even gotten cleaned up, and his clothes looked newly
washed,  like  he’d  used  the  hotel’s  valet  service.  Festus  the  dragon  was

back  in  normal  form,  snorting  fire  over  his  scales  to  keep  himself
defrosted.

As  Khione  led  them  down  the  stairs,  Jason  noticed  that  Leo’s  eyes
followed  her.  Leo  started  combing  his  hair  back  with  his  hands.  Uh-oh,
Jason thought. He made a mental note to warn Leo about the snow goddess
later. She was not someone to get a crush on.

At  the  bottom  step,  Khione  turned  to  Piper.  “You  have  fooled  my
father, girl. But you have not fooled me. We are not done. And you, Jason
Grace, I will see you as a statue in the throne room soon enough.”

“Boreas  is  right,”  Jason  said.  “You’re  a  spoiled  kid.  See  you  around,

ice princess.”

Khione’s  eyes  flared  pure  white.  For  once,  she  seemed  at  a  loss  for
words.  She  stormed  back  up  the  stairs—literally.  Halfway  up,  she  turned
into a blizzard and disappeared.

“Be careful,” Zethes warned. “She never forgets an insult.”
Cal grunted in agreement. “Bad sister.”
“She’s  the  goddess  of  snow,”  Jason  said.  “What’s  she  going  to  do,
throw snowballs at us?” But as he said it, Jason had a feeling Khione could
do a whole lot worse.

Leo looked devastated. “What happened up there? You made her mad?

Is she mad at me too? Guys, that was my prom date!”

“We’ll explain later,” Piper promised, but when she glanced at Jason,

he realized she expected him to explain.

What  had  happened  up  there?  Jason  wasn’t  sure.  Boreas  had  turned
into  Aquilon,  his  Roman  form,  as  if  Jason’s  presence  caused  him  to  go
schizophrenic.

The  idea  that  Jason  had  been  sent  to  Camp  Half-Blood  seemed  to
amuse  the  god,  but  Boreas/Aquilon  hadn’t  let  them  go  out  of  kindness.
Cruel excitement had danced in his eyes, as if he’d just placed a bet on a
dogfight.

You will tear each other apart, he’d said with delight. Aeolus will never

have to worry about demigods again.

Jason  looked  away  from  Piper,  trying  not  to  show  how  unnerved  he

was. “Yeah,” he agreed, “we’ll explain later.”

“Be  careful,  pretty  girl,”  Zethes  said.  “The  winds  between  here  and
Chicago are bad-tempered. Many other evil things are stirring. I am sorry
you  will  not  be  staying.  You  would  make  a  lovely  ice  statue,  in  which  I
could check my reflection.”

“Thanks,” Piper said. “But I’d sooner play hockey with Cal.”
“Hockey?” Cal’s eyes lit up.
“Joking,” Piper said. “And the storm winds aren’t our worst problem,

are they?”

“Oh, no,” Zethes agreed. “Something else. Something worse.”
“Worse,” Cal echoed.
“Can you tell me?” Piper gave them a smile.
This  time,  the  charm  didn’t  work.  The  purple-winged  Boreads  shook
their  heads  in  unison.  The  hangar  doors  opened  onto  a  freezing  starry
night, and Festus the dragon stomped his feet, anxious to fly.

“Ask  Aeolus  what  is  worse,”  Zethes  said  darkly.  “He  knows.  Good

luck.”

He almost sounded like he cared what happened to them, even though

a few minutes ago he’d wanted to make Piper into an ice sculpture.

Cal patted Leo on the shoulder. “Don’t get destroyed,” he said, which
was  probably  the  longest  sentence  he’d  ever  attempted.  “Next  time—
hockey. Pizza.”

“Come on, guys.” Jason stared out at the dark. He was anxious to get
out of that cold penthouse, but he had a feeling it was the most hospitable
place  they’d  see  for  a  while.  “Let’s  go  to  Chicago  and  try  not  to  get
destroyed.”

PIPER DIDN’T RELAX UNTIL THE GLOW OF Quebec City faded behind them.

“You were amazing,” Jason told her.
The compliment should’ve made her day. But all she could think about
was  the  trouble  ahead.  Evil  things  are  stirring,Zethes  had  warned  them.
She knew that firsthand. The closer they got to the solstice, the less time
Piper had to make her decision.

She  told  Jason  in  French:  “If  you  knew  the  truth  about  me,  you

wouldn’t think I was so amazing.”
“What’d you say?” he asked.
“I said I only talked to Boreas. It wasn’t so amazing.”
She didn’t turn to look, but she imagined him smiling.
“Hey,”  he  said,  “you  saved  me  from  joining  Khione’s  subzero  hero

collection. I owe you one.”

That was definitely the easy part, she thought. There was no way Piper
would’ve let that ice witch keep Jason. What bothered Piper more was the
way Boreas had changed form, and why he’d let them go. It had something
to  do  with  Jason’s  past,  those  tattoos  on  his  arm.  Boreas  assumed  Jason
was  some  sort  of  Roman,  and  Romans  didn’t  mix  with  Greeks.  She  kept
waiting for Jason to offer an explanation, but he clearly didn’t want to talk
about it.

Until now, Piper had been able to dismiss Jason’s feeling that he didn’t
belong  at  Camp  Half-Blood.  Obviously  he  was  a  demigod.  Of  course  he
belonged.  But  now  …  what  if  he  was  something  else?  What  if  he  really
was an enemy? She couldn’t stand that idea any more than she could stand
Khione.

Leo passed them some sandwiches from his pack. He’d been quiet ever
since  they’d  told  him  what  happened  in  the  throne  room.  “I  still  can’t

believe Khione,” he said. “She looked so nice.”

“Trust  me,  man,”  Jason  said.  “Snow  may  be  pretty,  but  up  close  it’s

cold and nasty. We’ll find you a better prom date.”

Piper smiled, but Leo didn’t look pleased. He hadn’t said much about
his time in the palace, or why the Boreads had singled him out for smelling
like fire. Piper got the feeling he was hiding something. Whatever it was,
his mood seemed to be affecting Festus, who grumbled and steamed as he
tried  to  keep  himself  warm  in  the  cold  Canadian  air.  Happy  the  Dragon
was not so happy.

They ate their sandwiches as they flew. Piper had no idea how Leo had
stocked up on supplies, but he’d even remembered to bring veggie rations
for her. The cheese and avocado sandwich was awesome.

Nobody  talked.  Whatever  they  might  find  in  Chicago,  they  all  knew
Boreas  had  only  let  them  go  because  he  figured  they  were  already  on  a
suicide mission.

The moon  rose  and stars turned  overhead.  Piper’s eyes started  to  feel
heavy.  The  encounter  with  Boreas  and  his  children  had  scared  her  more
than she wanted to admit. Now that she had a full stomach, her adrenaline
was fading.

Suck it up, cupcake! Coach Hedge would’ve yelled at her. Don’t be a

wimp!

Piper had been thinking about the coach ever since Boreas mentioned
he was still alive. She’d never liked Hedge, but he’d leaped off a cliff to
save Leo, and he’d sacrificed himself to protect them on the skywalk. She
now realized that all the times at school the coach had pushed her, yelled at
her to run faster or do more push-ups, or even when he’d turned his back
and let her fight her own battles with the mean girls, the old goat man had
been trying to help her in his own irritating way—trying to prepare her for
life as a demigod.

On  the  skywalk,  Dylan  the  storm  spirit  had  said  something  about  the
coach,  too:  how  he’d  been  retired  to  Wilderness  School  because  he  was
getting too old, like it was some sort of punishment. Piper wondered what
that was about, and if it explained why the coach was always so grumpy.
Whatever the truth, now that Piper knew Hedge was alive, she had a strong
compulsion to save him.

Don’t get ahead of yourself, she chided. You’ve got bigger problems.

This trip won’t have a happy ending.

She was a traitor, just like Silena Beauregard. It was only a matter of

time before her friends found out.

She looked up at the stars and thought about a night long ago when she
and  her  dad  had  camped  out  in  front  of  Grandpa  Tom’s  house.  Grandpa
Tom  had  died  years  before,  but  Dad  had  kept  his  house  in  Oklahoma
because it was where he grew up.

They’d  gone  back  for  a  few  days,  with  the  idea  of  getting  the  place
fixed up to sell, although Piper wasn’t sure who’d want to buy a run-down
cabin  with  shutters  instead  of  windows  and  two  tiny  rooms  that  smelled
like cigars. The first night had been so stifling hot—no air conditioning in
the middle of August—that Dad suggested they sleep outside.

They’d spread  their  sleeping  bags and listened to  the  cicadas buzzing
in the trees. Piper pointed out the constellations she’d been reading about
—Hercules, Apollo’s lyre, Sagittarius the centaur.

Her dad crossed his arms behind his head. In his old T-shirt and jeans
he  looked  like  just  another  guy  from  Tahlequah,  Oklahoma,  a  Cherokee
who might’ve never left tribal lands. “Your grandpa would say those Greek
patterns  are  a  bunch  of  bull.  He  told  me  the  stars  were  creatures  with
glowing  fur,  like  magic  hedgehogs.  Once,  long  ago,  some  hunters  even
captured  a  few  in  the  forest.  They  didn’t  know  what  they’d  done  until
nighttime, when the star creatures began to glow. Golden sparks flew from
their fur, so the Cherokee released them back into the sky.”

“You believe in magic hedgehogs?” Piper asked.
Her dad laughed. “I think Grandpa Tom was full of bull, too, just like
the  Greeks.  But  it’s  a  big  sky.  I  suppose  there’s  room  for  Hercules  and
hedgehogs.”

They sat for a while, until Piper got the nerve to ask a question that had
been bugging her. “Dad, why don’t you ever play Native American parts?”
The  week  before,  he’d  turned  down  several  million  dollars  to  play
Tonto in a remake of The Lone Ranger. Piper was still trying to figure out
why.  He’d  played  all  kinds  of  roles—a  Latino  teacher  in  a  tough  L.A.
school,  a  dashing  Israeli  spy  in  an  action-adventure  blockbuster,  even  a
Syrian terrorist in a James Bond movie. And, of course, he would always

be known as the King of Sparta. But if the part was Native American—it
didn’t matter what kind of role it was—Dad turned it down.

He  winked  at  her.  “Too  close  to  home,  Pipes.  Easier  to  pretend  I’m

something I’m not.”

“Doesn’t that get old? Aren’t you ever tempted, like, if you found the

perfect part that could change people’s opinions?”

“If there’s a part like that, Pipes,” he said sadly, “I haven’t found it.”
She looked at the stars, trying to imagine them as glowing hedgehogs.
All she saw were the stick figures she knew—Hercules running across the
sky, on his way to kill monsters. Dad was probably right. The Greeks and
the Cherokee were equally crazy. The stars were just balls of fire.

“Dad,”  she  said,  “if  you  don’t  like  being  close  to  home,  why  are  we

sleeping in Grandpa Tom’s yard?”

His  laughter  echoed  in  the  quiet  Oklahoma  night.  “I  think  you  know

me too well, Pipes.”

“You’re not really going to sell this place, are you?”
“Nope,” he sighed. “I’m probably not.”
Piper  blinked,  shaking  herself  out  of  the  memory.  She  realized  she’d
been falling asleep on the dragon’s back. How could her dad pretend to be
so  many  things  he  wasn’t?  She  was  trying  to  do  that  now,  and  it  was
tearing her apart.

Maybe she could pretend for a little while longer. She could dream of
finding  a  way  to  save  her  father  without  betraying  her  friends—even  if
right now a happy ending seemed about as likely as magic hedgehogs.

She  leaned  back  against  Jason’s  warm  chest.  He  didn’t  complain.  As

soon she closed her eyes, she drifted off to sleep.

In her dream, she was back on the mountaintop. The ghostly purple bonfire
cast  shadows  across  the  trees.  Piper’s  eyes  stung  from  smoke,  and  the
ground was so warm, the soles of her boots felt sticky.

A voice from the dark rumbled, “You forget your duty.”
Piper couldn’t see him, but it was definitely her least favorite giant—
the one who called himself Enceladus. She looked around for any sign of
her father, but the pole where he’d been chained was no longer there.
“Where is he?” she demanded. “What’ve you done with him?”

The giant’s laugh was like lava hissing down a volcano. “His body is
safe enough, though I fear the poor man’s mind can’t take much more of
my  company. For some  reason  he finds  me—disturbing.  You must hurry,
girl, or I fear there will be little left of him to save.”

“Let him go!” she screamed. “Take me instead. He’s just a mortal!”
“But,  my  dear,”  the  giant  rumbled,  “we  must  prove  our  love  for  our
parents. That’s what I’m doing.  Show  me  you  value  your  father’s  life  by
doing  what  I  ask.  Who’s  more  important—your  father,  or  a  deceitful
goddess  who  used  you,  toyed  with  your  emotions,  manipulated  your
memories, eh? What is Hera to you?”

Piper began to tremble. So much anger and fear boiled inside her, she

could hardly talk. “You’re asking me to betray my friends.”

“Sadly,  my  dear,  your  friends  are  destined  to  die.  Their  quest  is
impossible.  Even  if  you  succeeded,  you  heard  the  prophecy:  unleashing
Hera’s  rage  would  mean  your  destruction.  The  only  question  now—will
you die with your friends, or live with your father?”

The  bonfire  roared.  Piper  tried  to  step  back,  but  her  feet  were  heavy.
She  realized  the  ground  was  pulling  her  down,  clinging  to  her  boots  like
wet  sand.  When  she  looked  up,  a  shower  of  purple  sparks  had  spread
across  the  sky,  and  the  sun  was  rising  in  the  east.  A  patchwork  of  cities
glowed in the valley below, and far to the west, over a line of rolling hills,
she saw a familiar landmark rising from a sea of fog.

“Why are you showing me this?” Piper asked. “You’re revealing where

you are.”

“Yes,  you  know  this  place,”  the  giant  said.  “Lead  your  friends  here
instead of their true destination, and I will deal with them. Or even better,
arrange  their  deaths  before  you  arrive.  I  don’t  care  which.  Just  be  at  the
summit by noon on the solstice, and you may collect your father and go in
peace.”

“I can’t,” Piper said. “You can’t ask me—”
“To  betray  that  foolish  boy  Valdez,  who  always  irritated  you  and  is
now hiding secrets from you? To give up a boyfriend you never really had?
Is that more important than your own father?”

“I’ll find a way to defeat you,” Piper said. “I’ll save my father and my

friends.”

The giant growled in the shadows. “I was once proud too. I thought the
gods  could  never  defeat  me.  Then  they  hurled  a  mountain  on  top  of  me,
crushed me into the ground, where I struggled for eons, half-conscious in
pain. That taught me patience, girl. It taught me not to act rashly. Now I’ve
clawed my way back with the help of the waking earth. I am only the first.
My  brethren  will  follow.  We  will  not  be  denied  our  vengeance—not  this
time.  And  you,  Piper  McLean,  need  a  lesson  in  humility.  I’ll  show  you
how easily your rebellious spirit can be brought to earth.”

The  dream  dissolved.  And  Piper  woke  up  screaming,  free-falling

through the air.

PIPER  THUMBLED  THROUGH  THE  SKY.  Far  below  she  saw  city  lights
glimmering in the early dawn, and several hundred yards away the body of
the bronze dragon spinning out of control, its wings limp, fire flickering in
its mouth like a badly wired lightbulb.

A body shot past her—Leo, screaming and frantically grabbing at the

clouds. “Not coooooool!”

She tried to call to him, but he was already too far below.
Somewhere  above  her,  Jason  yelled,  “Piper,  level  out!  Extend  your

arms and legs!”

It was hard to control her fear, but she did what he said and regained
some  balance.  She  fell  spread-eagle  like  a  skydiver,  the  wind  underneath
her  like  a  solid  block  of  ice.  Then  Jason  was  there,  wrapping  his  arms
around her waist.

Thank god, Piper thought. But part of her also thought: Great. Second
time  this  week  he’s  hugged  me,  and  both  times  it’s  because  I’m
plummeting to my death.

“We have to get Leo!” she shouted.
Their  fall  slowed as Jason controlled the  winds, but  they  still  lurched

up and down like the winds didn’t want to cooperate.
“Gonna get rough,” Jason warned. “Hold on!”
Piper locked her arms around him, and Jason shot toward the ground.
Piper  probably  screamed,  but  the  sound  was  ripped  from  her  mouth.  Her
vision blurred.

And then, thump! They  slammed  into  another  warm  body—Leo,  still

wriggling and cursing.

“Stop fighting!” Jason said. “It’s me!”
“My dragon!” Leo yelled. “You gotta save Festus!”

Jason was already struggling to keep the three of them aloft, and Piper
knew there was no way he could help a fifty-ton metal dragon. But before
she  could  try  to  reason  with  Leo,  she  heard  an  explosion  below  them.  A
fireball  rolled  into  the  sky  from  behind  a  warehouse  complex,  and  Leo
sobbed, “Festus!”

Jason’s face reddened with strain as he tried to maintain an air cushion
beneath them, but intermittent slow-downs were the best he could manage.
Rather  than  free-falling,  it  felt  like  they  were  bouncing  down  a  giant
staircase, a hundred feet at a time, which wasn’t doing Piper’s stomach any
favors.

As  they  wobbled  and  zigzagged,  Piper  could  make  out  details  of  the
factory  complex  below—warehouses,  smokestacks,  barbed-wire  fences,
and  parking  lots  lined  with  snow-covered  vehicles.  They  were  still  high
enough  so  that  hitting  the  ground  would  flatten  them  into  roadkill—or
skykill—when Jason groaned, “I can’t—”

And they dropped like stones.
They  hit  the  roof  of  the  largest  warehouse  and  crashed  through  into

darkness.

Unfortunately, Piper tried to land on her feet. Her feet didn’t like that.

Pain flared in her left ankle as she crumpled against a cold metal surface.

For a few seconds she wasn’t conscious of anything but pain—pain so

bad that her ears rang and her vision went red.

Then  she  heard  Jason’s  voice  somewhere  below,  echoing  through  the

building. “Piper! Where’s Piper?”

“Ow,  bro!”  Leo  groaned.  “That’s  my  back!  I’m  not  a  sofa!  Piper,

where’d you go?”

“Here,” she managed, her voice a whimper.
She heard shuffling and grunting, then feet pounding on metal steps.
Her vision began to clear. She was on a metal catwalk that ringed the
warehouse  interior.  Leo  and  Jason  had  landed  on  ground  level,  and  were
now coming up the stairs toward her. She looked at her foot, and wave of
nausea swept over her. Her toes weren’t supposed to point that way, were
they?

Oh, god. She forced herself to look away before she threw up. Focus

on something else. Anything else.

The  hole  they’d  made  in  the  roof  was  a  ragged  starburst  twenty  feet
above. How they’d even survived that drop, she had no idea. Hanging from
the ceiling, a few electric bulbs flickered dimly, but they didn’t do much to
light  the  enormous  space.  Next  to  Piper,  the  corrugated  metal  wall  was
emblazoned  with  a  company  logo,  but  it  was  almost  completely  spray-
painted  over  with  graffiti.  Down  in  the  shadowy  warehouse,  she  could
make out huge machines, robotic arms, half-finished trucks on an assembly
line. The place looked like it had been abandoned for years.

Jason and Leo reached her side.
Leo  started  to  ask,  “You  okay  …  ?”  Then  he  saw  her  foot.  “Oh  no,

you’re not.”

“Thanks for the reassurance,” Piper groaned.
“You’ll be fine,” Jason said, though Piper could hear the worry in his

voice. “Leo, you got any first aid supplies?”

“Yeah—yeah,  sure.”  He  dug  around  in  his  tool  belt  and  pulled  out  a
wad of gauze and a roll of duct tape—both of which seemed too big for the
belt’s pockets. Piper had noticed the tool belt yesterday morning, but she
hadn’t  thought  to  ask  Leo  about  it.  It  didn’t  look  like  anything  special—
just one of those wraparound leather aprons with a bunch of pockets, like a
blacksmith or a carpenter might wear. And it seemed to be empty.

“How did you—” Piper tried to sit up, and winced. “How did pull that

stuff from an empty belt?”

“Magic,”  Leo  said.  “Haven’t  figure  it  out  completely,  but  I  can
summon  just  about  any  regular  tool  out  of  the  pockets,  plus  some  other
helpful  stuff.”  He  reached  into  another  pocket  and  pulled  out  a  little  tin
box. “Breath mint?”

Jason  snatched  away  the  mints.  “That’s  great,  Leo.  Now,  can  you  fix

her foot?”

“I’m  a  mechanic,  man.  Maybe  if  she  was  a  car  …”  He  snapped  his
fingers.  “Wait,  what  was  that  godly  healing  stuffthey  fed  you  at  camp—
Rambo food?”

“Ambrosia, dummy,” Piper said through gritted teeth. “There should be

some in my bag, if it’s not crushed.”

Jason  carefully  pulled  her  backpack  off  her  shoulders.  He  rummaged
through  the  supplies  the  Aphrodite  kids  had  packed  for  her,  and  found  a

Ziploc full of smashed pastry squares like lemon bars. He broke off a piece
and fed it to her.

The taste was nothing like she expected. It reminded her of Dad’s black
bean  soup  from  when  she  was  a  little  girl.  He  used  to  feed  it  to  her
whenever she got sick. The memory relaxed her, though it made her sad.
The pain in her ankle subsided.

“More,” she said.
Jason frowned. “Piper, we shouldn’t risk it. They said too much could

burn you up. I think I should try to set your foot.”

Piper’s stomach fluttered. “Have you ever done that before?”
“Yeah … I think so.”
Leo found an old piece of wood and broke it in half for a splint. Then

he got the gauze and duct tape ready.

“Hold her leg still,” Jason told him. “Piper, this is going to hurt.”
When Jason set the foot, Piper flinched so hard she punched Leo in the
arm, and he yelled almost as much as she did. When her vision cleared and
she could breathe normally again, she found that her foot was pointing the
right way, her ankle splinted with plywood, gauze, and duct tape.

“Ow,” she said.
“Jeez,  beauty  queen!”  Leo  rubbed  his  arm.  “Glad  my  face  wasn’t

there.”

“Sorry,” she said. “And don’t call me ‘beauty queen,’ or I’ll punch you

again.”

“You both did great.” Jason found a canteen in Piper’s pack and gave

her some water. After a few minutes, her stomach began to calm down.

Once  she  wasn’t  screaming  in  pain,  she  could  hear  the  wind  howling
outside.  Snowflakes  fluttered  through  the  hole  in  the  roof,  and after their
meeting with Khione, snow was the last thing Piper wanted to see.
“What happened to the dragon?” she asked. “Where are we?”
Leo’s  expression  turned  sullen.  “I  don’t  know  with  Festus.  He  just

jerked sideways like he hit an invisible wall and started to fall.”

Piper remembered Enceladus’s warning: I’ll show you how easily your
rebellious spirit can be brought  to  earth.  Had  he managed  to  strike  them
down  from  so  far  away?  It  seemed  impossible.  If  he  were  that  powerful,

why would he need her to betray her friends when he could just kill them
himself? And how could the giant be keeping an eye on her in a snowstorm
thousands of miles away?

Leo pointed to the logo on the wall. “As far as where we are …” It was
hard to see through the graffiti, but Piper could make out a large red eye
with the stenciled words: monocle motors, assembly plant 1.

“Closed  car  plant,”  Leo  said.  “I’m  guessing  we  crash-landed  in

Detroit.”

Piper had heard about closed car plants in Detroit, so that made sense.
But it seemed like a pretty depressing place to land. “How far is that from
Chicago?”

Jason  handed  her  the  canteen.  “Maybe  three-fourths  of  the  way  from
Quebec? The thing is, without the dragon, we’re stuck traveling overland.”

“No way,” Leo said. “It isn’t safe.”
Piper  thought  about  the  way  the  ground  had  pulled  at  her  feet  in  the
dream,  and  what  King  Boreas  had  said  about  the  earth  yielding  up  more
horrors. “He’s right. Besides, I don’t know if I can walk. And three people
—Jason, you can’t fly that many across country by yourself.”

“No  way,”  Jason  said.  “Leo,  are  you  sure  the  dragon  didn’t

malfunction? I mean, Festus is old, and—”

“And I might not have repaired him right?”
“I didn’t say that,” Jason protested. “It’s just—maybe you could fix it.”
“I don’t know.” Leo sounded crestfallen. He pulled a few screws out of
his  pockets  and  started  fiddling  with  them.  “I’d  have  to  find  where  he
landed, if he’s even in one piece.”

“It was my fault.” Piper said without thinking. She just couldn’t stand
it anymore. The secret about her father was heating up inside her like too
much ambrosia. If she kept lying to her friends, she felt like she’d burn to
ashes.

“Piper,” Jason said gently, “you were asleep when Festus conked out. It

couldn’t be your fault.”

“Yeah, you’re just shaken up,” Leo agreed. He didn’t even try to make

a joke at her expense. “You’re in pain. Just rest.”

She wanted to tell them everything, but the words stuck in her throat.
They  were  both  being  so  kind  to  her.  Yet  if  Enceladus  was  watching  her

somehow, saying the wrong thing could get her father killed.

Leo  stood.  “Look,  um,  Jason,  why  don’t  you  stay  with  her,  bro?  I’ll
scout around for Festus. I think he fell outside the warehouse somewhere.
If I can find him, maybe I can figure out what happened and fix him.”
“It’s too dangerous,” Jason said. “You shouldn’t go by yourself.”
“Ah, I got duct tape and breath mints. I’ll be fine,” Leo said, a little too
quickly, and Piper realized he was a lot more shaken up than he was letting
on. “You guys just don’t run off without me.”

Leo reached into his magic tool belt, pulled out a flashlight, and headed

down the stairs, leaving Piper and Jason alone.

Jason gave her a smile, though  he looked  kind  of nervous.  It  was  the
exact expression he’d had on his face after he’d kissed her the first time,
up  on  the  Wilderness  School  dorm  roof—that  cute  little  scar  on  his  lip
curving  into  a  crescent.  The  memory  gave  her  a  warm  feeling.  Then  she
remembered that the kiss had never really happened.

“You look better,” Jason offered.
Piper  wasn’t  sure  if  he  meant  her  foot,  or  the  fact  that  she  wasn’t
magically  beautified  anymore.  Her  jeans  were  tattered  from  the  fall
through  the  roof.  Her  boots  were  splattered  with  melted  dirty  snow.  She
didn’t know what her face looked like, but probably horrible.

Why did it matter? She’d never cared about things like that before. She
wondered  if  it  was  her  stupid  mother,  the  goddess  of  love,  messing  with
her thoughts. If Piper started getting urges to read fashion magazines, she
was going to have to find Aphrodite and smack her.

She decided to focus on her ankle instead. As long as she didn’t move
it, the pain wasn’t bad. “You did a good job,” she told Jason. “Where’d you
learn first aid?”

He shrugged. “Same answer as always. I don’t know.”
“But  you’re  starting  to  have  some  memories,  aren’t  you?  Like  that

prophecy in Latin back at camp, or that dream about the wolf.”

“It’s fuzzy,” he said. “Like déjà vu. Ever forgotten a word or a name,
and you know it should be on the tip of your tongue, but it isn’t? It’s like
that—only with my whole life.”

Piper  sort  of  knew  what  he  meant.  The  last  three  months—a  life  she

thought she’d had, a relationship with Jason—had turned out to be Mist.

A  boyfriend  you  never  really  had,  Enceladus  had  said.  Is  that  more

important than your own father?

She  should’ve  kept  her  mouth  shut,  but  she  voiced  the  question  that

had been on her mind since yesterday.

“That  photo  in  your  pocket,”  she  said.  “Is  that  someone  from  your

past?”

Jason pulled back.
“I’m sorry,” she said. “None of my business. Forget it.”
“No—it’s okay.” His features relaxed. “Just, I’m trying to figure things
out. Her name’s Thalia. She’s my sister. I don’t remember any details. I’m
not even sure how I know, but—um, why are you smiling?”

“Nothing.” Piper tried to kill the smile. Not an old  girlfriend.  She felt
ridiculously happy. “Um, it’s just—that’s great you remembered. Annabeth
told me she became a Hunter of Artemis, right?”

Jason nodded. “I get the feeling I’m supposed to find her. Hera left me
that memory for a reason. It’s got something to do with this quest. But … I
also have the feeling it could be dangerous. I’m not sure I want to find out
the truth. Is that crazy?”

“No,” Piper said. “Not at all.”
She stared at the logo on the wall: monocle motors, the single red eye.

Something about that logo bothered her.

Maybe it was the idea Enceladus was watching her, holding her father

for leverage. She had to save him, but how could she betray her friends?

“Jason,” she said. “Speaking of the truth, I need to tell you something

—something about my dad—”

She  didn’t  get  the  chance.  Somewhere  below,  metal  clanged  against
metal,  like  a  door  slamming  shut.  The  sound  echoed  through  the
warehouse.

Jason stood. He took out his coin and flipped it, snatching his golden

sword out of the air. He peered over the railing. “Leo?” he called.

No answer.
He crouched next to Piper. “I don’t like this.”
“He could be in trouble,” Piper said. “Go check.”
“I can’t leave you alone.”

“I’ll  be  fine.”  She  felt  terrified,  but  she  wasn’t  about  to  admit  it.  She
drew her dagger Katoptris and tried to look confident. “Anyone gets close,
I’ll skewer them.”

Jason  hesitated.  “I’ll  leave  you  the  pack.  If  I’m  not  back  in  five

minutes—”

“Panic?” she suggested.
He  managed  a  smile.  “Glad  you’re  back  to  normal.  The  makeup  and

the dress were a lot more intimidating than the dagger.”

“Get going, Sparky, before I skewer you.”
“Sparky?”
Even offended, Jason looked hot. It wasn’t fair. Then he made his way

to the stairs and disappeared into the dark.

Piper counted her breaths, trying to gauge how much time had passed.
She lost track at around forty-three. Then something in the warehouse went
bang!

The  echo  died.  Piper’s  heart  pounded,  but  she  didn’t  call  out.  Her

instincts told her it might not be a good idea.

She stared at her splinted ankle. It’s not like I can run. Then she looked
up  again  at  the  Monocle  Motors  sign.  A  little  voice  in  her  head  pestered
her, warning of danger. Something from Greek mythology …

Her  hand  went  to  her  backpack.  She  took  out  the  ambrosia  squares.

Too much would burn her up, but would a little more fix her ankle?

Boom. The sound was closer this time, directly below her. She dug out
a  whole  square  of  ambrosia  and  stuffed  it  in  her  mouth.  Her  heart  raced
faster. Her skin felt feverish.

Hesitantly, she flexed her ankle against the splint. No pain, no stiffness
at all. She cut through the duct tape with her dagger and heard heavy steps
on the stairs—like metal boots.

Had it been five minutes? Longer? The steps didn’t sound like Jason,
but maybe he was carrying Leo. Finally she couldn’t stand it. Gripping her
dagger, she called out, “Jason?”

“Yeah,” he said from the darkness. “On my way up.”
Definitely Jason’s voice. So why did all her instincts say Run?
With effort, she got to her feet.

The steps came closer.
“It’s okay,” Jason’s voice promised.
At the top of the stairs, a face appeared out of the darkness—a hideous
black grin, a smashed nose, and a single bloodshot eye in the middle of his
forehead.

“It’s  fine,”  the  Cyclops  said,  in  a  perfect  imitation  of  Jason’s  voice.

“You’re just in time for dinner.”

LEO WISHED THE DRAGON HADN’T LANDED on the toilets.

Of all the places to crash, a line of Porta-Potties would not have been
his  first  choice.  A dozen of the  blue  plastic boxes had been set  up in  the
factory  yard,  and  Festus  had  flattened  them  all.  Fortunately,  they  hadn’t
been used in a long time, and the fireball from the crash incinerated most
of  the  contents;  but  still,  there  were  some  pretty  gross  chemicals  leaking
out of the wreckage. Leo had to pick his way through and try not to breathe
through  his  nose.  Heavy  snow  was  coming  down,  but  the  dragon’s  hide
was still steaming hot. Of course, that didn’t bother Leo.

After a few minutes climbing over Festus’s inanimate body, Leo started
to get irritated. The dragon looked perfectly fine. Yes, it had fallen out of
the sky and landed with a big ka-boom,  but  its body  wasn’t even dented.
The  fireball  had  apparently  come  from  built  up  gasses  inside  the  toilet
units,  not  from  the  dragon  itself.  Festus’s  wings  were  intact.  Nothing
seemed broken. There was no reason it should have stopped.

“Not my fault,” he muttered. “Festus, you’re making me look bad.”
Then he opened the control panel on the dragon’s head, and Leo’s heart

sank. “Oh, Festus, what the heck?”

The  wiring  had  frozen  over.  Leo  knew  it  had  been  okay  yesterday.
He’d  worked  so  hard  to  repair  the  corroded  lines,  but  something  had
caused a flash freeze inside the dragon’s skull, where it should’ve been too
hot for ice to form. The ice had caused the wiring to overload and char the
control  disk.  Leo  couldn’t  see  any  reason  that  would’ve  happened.  Sure,
the dragon was old, but still, it didn’t make sense.

He could replace the wires. That wasn’t the problem. But the charred
control  disk  was  not  good.  The  Greek  letters  and  pictures  carved  around
the  edges,  which  probably  held  all  kinds  of  magic,  were  blurred  and
blackened.

The one piece of hardware Leo couldn’t replace—and it was damaged.

Again.

He  imagined  his  mom’s  voice:  Most  problems  look  worse  than  they

are, mijo. Nothing is unfixable.

His  mom  could  repair  just  about  anything,  but  Leo  was  pretty  sure

she’d never worked on a fifty-year-old magic metal dragon.

He  clenched  his  teeth  and  decided  he  had  to  try.  He  wasn’t  walking
from  Detroit  to  Chicago  in  a  snowstorm,  and  he  wasn’t  going  to  be
responsible for stranding his friends.

“Right,” he muttered, brushing the snow off his shoulders.
“Gimme a nylon bristle detail brush, some nitrile gloves, and maybe a

can of that aerosol cleaning solvent.”

The  tool  belt  obliged.  Leo  couldn’t  help  smiling  as  he  pulled  out  the
supplies.  The  belt’s  pockets  did  have  limits.  They  wouldn’t  give  him
anything  magic,  like  Jason’s  sword,  or  anything  huge,  like  a  chain  saw.
He’d tried asking for both. And if he asked for too many things at once, the
belt  needed  a  cooldown  time  before  it  could  work  again.  The  more
complicated the request, the longer the cooldown. But anything small and
simple like you might find around a workshop—all Leo had to do was ask.
He  began  cleaning  off  the  control  disk.  While  he  worked,  snow
collected  on  the  cooling  dragon.  Leo  had  to  stop  from  time  to  time  to
summon fire and melt it away, but mostly he went into autopilot mode, his
hands working by themselves as his thoughts wandered.

Leo couldn’t believe how stupid he’d acted back at Boreas’s palace. He
should’ve figured a family of winter gods would hate him on sight. Son of
the  fire  god  flying  a  fire-breathing  dragon  into  an  ice  penthouse—yeah,
maybe  not  the  best  move.  Still,  he  hated  feeling  like  a  reject.  Jason  and
Piper got to visit the throne room. Leo got to wait in the lobby with Cal,
the demigod of hockey and major head injuries.

Fire is bad, Cal had told him.
That pretty much summed it up. Leo knew he couldn’t keep the truth
from  his  friends  much  longer.  Ever  since  Camp  Half-Blood,  one  line  of
that Great Prophecy kept coming back to him: To storm or fire the world
must fall.

And Leo was the fire guy, the first one since 1666 when London had
burned  down.  If  he  told  his  friends  what  he  could  really  do—Hey, guess
what, guys? I might destroy the world!—why would anyone welcome him
back  at  camp?  Leo  would  have  to  go  on  the  run  again.  Even  though  he
knew that drill, the idea depressed him.

Then there was Khione. Dang, that girl was fine. Leo knew he’d acted
like a total fool, but he couldn’t help himself. He’d had his clothes cleaned
with  the  one-hour  valet  service  —which  had  been  totally  sweet,  by  the
way. He’d combed his hair—never an easy job—and even discovered the
tool  bag  could  make  breath  mints,  all  in  hopes  that  he  could  get  close  to
her. Naturally, no such luck.

Getting  frozen  out—story  of  his  life—by  his  relatives,  foster  homes,
you name it. Even at Wilderness School, Leo had spent the last few weeks
feeling  like  a  third  wheel  as  Jason  and  Piper,  his  only  friends,  became  a
couple. He was happy for them and all, but still it made him feel like they
didn’t need him anymore.

When  he’d  found  out  that  Jason’s  whole  time  at  school  had  been  an
illusion—a kind of a memory burp—Leo had been secretly excited. It was
a  chance  for  a  reset.  Now  Jason  and  Piper  were  heading  toward  being  a
couple  again—that  was  obvious  from  the  way  they’d  acted  in  the
warehouse  just  now,  like  they  wanted  to  talk  in  private  without  Leo
around.  What  had  he  expected?  He’d  wind  up  the  odd  man  out  again.
Khione had just given him the cold shoulder a little quicker than most.

“Enough,  Valdez,”  he  scolded  himself.  “Nobody’s  going  to  play  any

violins for you just because you’re not important. Fix the stupid dragon.”

He got so involved with his work, he wasn’t sure how much time had

passed before he heard the voice.
You’re wrong, Leo, it said.
He fumbled his brush and dropped it into the dragon’s head. He stood,
but  he  couldn’t  see  who’d  spoken.  Then  he  looked  at  the  ground.  Snow
and  chemical  sludge  from  the  toilets,  even  the  asphalt  itself  was  shifting
like it was turning to liquid. A ten-foot-wide area formed eyes, a nose, and
a mouth—the giant face of a sleeping woman.

She didn’t exactly speak. Her lips didn’t move. But Leo could hear her
voice  in  his  head,  as  if  the  vibrations  were  coming  through  the  ground,
straight into his feet and resonating up his skeleton.

They need you desperately, she said. In  some  ways,  you  are  the  most
important of the seven—like the control disk in the dragon’s brain. Without
you,  the  power  of  the  others  means  nothing.  They  will  never  reach  me,
never stop me. And I will fully wake.

“You.” Leo was shaking so badly he wasn’t sure he’d spoken aloud. He
hadn’t  heard  that  voice  since  he  was  eight,  but  it  was  her:  the  earthen
woman from the machine shop. “You killed my mom.”

The face shifted. The mouth formed a sleepy smile like it was having a
pleasant dream. Ah, but Leo. I am your mother too—the First Mother. Do
not  oppose me.  Walk  away  now. Let  my  son Porphyrion  rise  and become
king, and I will ease your burdens. You will tread lightly on the earth.

Leo grabbed the nearest thing he could find—a Porta-Potty seat—and

threw it at the face. “Leave me alone!”

The toilet seat sank into the liquid earth. Snow and sludge rippled, and

the face dissolved.

Leo stared at the ground, waiting for the face to reappear. But it didn’t.

Leo wanted to think he’d imagined it.

Then  from  the  direction  of  the  factory,  he  heard  a  crash—like  two
dump  trucks  slamming  together.  Metal  crumpled  and  groaned,  and  the
noise echoed across the yard. Instantly Leo knew that Jason and Piper were
in trouble.

Walk away now, the voice had urged.
“Not likely,” Leo growled. “Gimme the biggest hammer you got.”
He reached into his tool belt and pulled out a three-pound club hammer
with a double-faced head the size of a baked potato. Then he jumped off
the dragon’s back and ran toward the warehouse.

LEO STOPPED AT THE DOORS AND TRIED to control his breathing. The voice
of  the  earth  woman  still  rang  in  his  ears,  reminding  him  of  his  mother’s
death.  The  last  thing  he  wanted  to  do  was  plunge  into  another  dark
warehouse.  Suddenly  he  felt  eight  years  old  again,  alone  and  helpless  as
someone he cared about was trapped and in trouble.

Stop it, he told himself. That’s how she wants you to feel.
But  that  didn’t  make  him  any  less  scared.  He  took  a  deep  breath  and
peered  inside.  Nothing  looked  different.  Gray  morning  light  filtered
through  the  hole  in  the  roof.  A  few  lightbulbs  flickered,  but  most  of  the
factory  floor  was  still  lost  in  shadows.  He  could  make  out  the  catwalk
above, the dim shapes of heavy machinery along the assembly line, but no
movement. No sign of his friends.

He almost called out, but something stopped him—a sense he couldn’t
identify.  Then  he  realized  it  was  smell.  Something  smelled  wrong—like
burning motor oil and sour breath.

Something  not  human  was  inside  the  factory.  Leo  was  certain.  His

body shifted into high gear, all his nerves tingling.

Somewhere on the factory floor, Piper’s voice cried out: “Leo, help!”
But Leo held his tongue. How could Piper have gotten offthe catwalk

with her broken ankle?

He  slipped  inside  and  ducked  behind  a  cargo  container.  Slowly,
gripping  his  hammer,  he  worked  his  way  toward  the  center  of  the  room,
hiding  behind  boxes  and  hollow  truck  chassis.  Finally  he  reached  the
assembly  line.  He  crouched  behind  the  nearest  piece  of  machinery—a
crane with a robotic arm.

Piper’s voice called out again: “Leo?” Less certain this time, but very

close.

Leo  peeked  around  the  machinery.  Hanging  directly  above  the
assembly line, suspended by a chain from a crane on the opposite side, was
a massive truck engine—just dangling thirty feet up, as if it had been left
there when the factory was abandoned. Below it on the conveyor belt sat a
truck  chassis,  and  clustered  around  it  were  three  dark  shapes  the  size  of
forklifts.  Nearby,  dangling  from  chains  on  two  other  robotic  arms,  were
two  smaller  shapes—maybe  more  engines,  but  one  of  them  was  twisting
around as if it were alive.

Then  one  of  the  forklift  shapes  rose,  and  Leo  realized  it  was  a
humanoid of massive size. “Told you it was nothing,” the thing rumbled.
Its voice was too deep and feral to be human.

One of the other forklift-sized lumps shifted, and called out in Piper’s
voice:  “Leo,  help  me!  Help—”  Then  the  voice  changed,  becoming  a
masculine snarl. “Bah, there’s nobody out there. No demigod could be that
quiet, eh?”

The  first  monster  chuckled.  “Probably  ran  away,  if  he  knows  what’s
good  for  him.  Or  the  girl  was  lying  about  a  third  demigod.  Let’s  get
cooking.”

Snap. A  bright  orange  light  sizzled  to  life—an  emergency  flare—and
Leo was  temporarily blinded. He  ducked behind  the  crane  until  the  spots
cleared  from  his  eyes.  Then  he  took  another  peep  and  saw  a  nightmare
scene even Tía Callida couldn’t have dreamed up.

The  two  smaller  things  dangling  from  crane  arms  weren’t  engines.
They  were  Jason  and  Piper.  Both  hung  upside  down,  tied  by  their  ankles
and  cocooned  with  chains  up  to  their  necks.  Piper  was  flailing  around,
trying  to  free  herself.  Her  mouth  was  gagged,  but  at  least  she  was  alive.
Jason didn’t look so good. He hung limply, his eyes rolled up in his head.
A red welt the size of an apple had swollen over his left eyebrow.

On the conveyor belt, the bed of the unfinished pickup truck was being
used as a fire pit. The emergency flare had ignited a mixture of tires and
wood,  which,  from  the  smell  of  it,  had  been  doused  in  kerosene.  A  big
metal  pole  was  suspended  over  the  flames—a  spit,  Leo  realized,  which
meant this was a cooking fire.

But most terrifying of all were the cooks.
Monocle Motors: that single red eye logo. Why hadn’t Leo realized?

Three massive humanoids gathered around the fire. Two were standing,
stoking the flames. The largest one crouched with his back to Leo. The two
facing him were each ten feet tall, with hairy muscular bodies and skin that
glowed  red  in  the  firelight.  One  of  the  monsters  wore  a  chain  mail
loincloth that looked really uncomfortable. The other wore a ragged fuzzy
toga made of fiberglass insulation, which also would not have made Leo’s
top  ten  wardrobe  ideas.  Other  than  that,  the  two  monsters  could’ve  been
twins.  Each  had  a  brutish  face  with  a  single  eye  in  the  center  of  his
forehead. The cooks were Cyclopes.

Leo’s legs started quaking. He’d seen some weird things so far—storm
spirits and winged gods and a metal dragon that liked Tabasco sauce. But
this was  different. These were  actual,  flesh-and-blood, ten-foot-tall living
monsters who wanted to eat his friends for dinner.

He  was  so  terrified  he  could  hardly  think.  If  only  he  had  Festus.  He
could  use  a  fire-breathing  sixty-foot-long  tank  about  now.  But  all  he  had
was  a  tool  belt  and  a  backpack.  His  three-pound  club  hammer  looked
awfully small compared to those Cyclopes.

This is what the sleeping earth lady had been talking about. She wanted

Leo to walk away and leave his friends to die.

That decided it. No way was Leo going to let that earth lady make him
feel  powerless—never  again.  Leo  slipped  offhis  backpack  and  quietly
started to unzip it.

The  Cyclops  in  the  chain  mail  loincloth  walked  over  to  Piper,  who
squirmed  and  tried  to  head-butt  him  in  the  eye.  “Can  I  take  her  gag  off
now? I like it when they scream.”

The question  was  directed  at  the  third  Cyclops,  apparently  the  leader.
The  crouching  figure  grunted,  and  Loincloth  ripped  the  gag  off  Piper’s
mouth.

She didn’t scream. She took a shaky breath like she was trying to keep

herself calm.

Meanwhile,  Leo  found  what  he  wanted  in  the  pack:  a  stack  of  tiny
remote control units he’d picked up in Bunker 9. At least he hoped that’s
what they  were.  The robotic  crane’s maintenance  panel  was  easy to  find.
He slipped a screwdriver from his tool belt and went to work, but he had to
go slowly. The leader Cyclops  was  only  twenty  feet in  front of him. The

monsters  obviously  had  excellent  senses.  Pulling  off  his  plan  without
making noise seemed impossible, but he didn’t have much choice.

The Cyclops in the toga poked at the fire, which was now blazing away
and  billowing  noxious  black  smoke  toward  the  ceiling.  His  buddy
Loincloth glowered at Piper, waiting for her to do something entertaining.
“Scream, girl! I like funny screaming!”

When Piper finally spoke, her tone was calm and reasonable, like she
was correcting a naughty puppy. “Oh, Mr. Cyclops, you don’t want to kill
us. It would be much better if you let us go.”

Loincloth  scratched  his  ugly  head.  He  turned  to  his  friend  in  the

fiberglass toga. “She’s kind of pretty, Torque. Maybe I should let her go.”

Torque,  the  dude  in  the  toga,  growled.  “I  saw  her  first,  Sump.  I’ll  let
her go!” Sump and Torque started to argue, but the third Cyclops rose and
shouted, “Fools!”

Leo almost dropped his screwdriver. The third Cyclops was a female.
She  was  several  feet  taller  than  Torque  or  Sump,  and  even  beefier.  She
wore  a  tent  of  chain  mail  cut  like  one  of  those  sack  dresses  Leo’s  mean
Aunt  Rosa  used  to  wear.  What’d  they  call  that—a  muumuu?  Yeah,  the
Cyclops lady had a chain mail muumuu. Her greasy black hair was matted
in  pigtails,  woven  with  copper  wires  and  metal  washers.  Her  nose  and
mouth  were  thick  and  smashed  together,  like  she  spent  her  free  time
ramming  her  face  into  walls;  but  her  single  red  eye  glittered  with  evil
intelligence.

The  woman  Cyclops  stalked  over  to  Sump  and  pushed  him  aside,

knocking him over the conveyor belt. Torque backed up quickly.

“The  girl  is  Venus  spawn,”  the  lady  Cyclops  snarled.  “She’s  using

charmspeak on you.”

Piper started to say, “Please, ma’am—”
“Rarr!”  The lady  Cyclops  grabbed  Piper  around the  waist.  “Don’t try
your pretty talk on me, girl! I’m Ma Gasket! I’ve eaten heroes tougher than
you for lunch!”

Leo  feared  Piper  would  get  crushed,  but  Ma  Gasket  just  dropped  her
and let her dangle from her chain. Then she started yelling at Sump about
how stupid he was.

Leo’s  hands  worked  furiously.  He  twisted  wires  and  turned  switches,
hardly thinking about what he was doing. He finished attaching the remote.
Then  he  crept  over  to  the  next  robotic  arm  while  the  Cyclopes  were
talking.

“—eat her last, Ma?” Sump was saying.
“Idiot!” Ma Gasket yelled, and Leo realized Sump and Torque must be
her sons. If so, ugly definitely ran in the family. “I should’ve thrown you
out on the streets when you were babies, like proper Cyclops children. You
might  have  learned  some  useful  skills.  Curse  my  soft  heart  that  I  kept
you!”

“Soft heart?” Torque muttered.
“What was that, you ingrate?”
“Nothing, Ma. I said you got a soft heart. We get to work for you, feed

you, file your toenails—”

“And  you  should  be  grateful!”  Ma  Gasket  bellowed.  “Now,  stoke  the
fire,  Torque!  And  Sump,  you  idiot,  my  case  of  salsa  is  in  the  other
warehouse.  Don’t  tell  me  you  expect  me  to  eat  these  demigods  without
salsa!”

“Yes, Ma,” Sump said. “I mean no, Ma. I mean—”
“Go get it!” Ma Gasket picked up a nearby truck chassis and slammed
it over Sump’s head. Sump crumpled to his knees. Leo was sure a hit like
that  would  kill  him,  but  Sump  apparently  got  hit  by  trucks  a  lot.  He
managed to push the chassis off his head. Then he staggered to his feet and
ran offto fetch the salsa.

Now’s the time, Leo thought. While they’re separated.
He finished wiring the second machine and moved toward a third. As
he  dashed  between  robotic  arms,  the  Cyclopes  didn’t  see  him,  but  Piper
did. Her expression turned from terror to disbelief, and she gasped.

Ma  Gasket  turned  to  her.  “What’s  the  matter,  girl?  So  fragile  I  broke

you?”

Thankfully, Piper was a quick thinker. She looked away from Leo and
said,  “I  think  it’s  my  ribs,  ma’am.  If  I’m  busted  up  inside,  I’ll  taste
terrible.”

Ma Gasket bellowed with laughter. “Good one. The last hero we ate—

remember him, Torque? Son of Mercury, wasn’t he?”

“Yes, Ma,” Torque said. “Tasty. Little bit stringy.”
“He  tried  a  trick  like  that.  Said  he  was  on  medication.  But  he  tasted

fine!”

“Tasted  like  mutton,”  Torque  recalled.  “Purple  shirt.  Talked  in  Latin.

Yes, a bit stringy, but good.”

Leo’s  fingers  froze  on  the  maintenance  panel.  Apparently,  Piper  was
having the same thought he was, because she asked, “Purple shirt? Latin?”
“Good  eating,”  Ma  Gasket  said  fondly.  “Point  is,  girl,  we’re  not  as
dumb as people think! We’re not falling for those stupid tricks and riddles,
not us northern Cyclopes.”

Leo forced himself back to work, but his mind was racing. A kid who
spoke Latin had been caught here—in a purple shirt like Jason’s? He didn’t
know what that meant, but he had to leave the interrogation to Piper. If he
was going to have any chance of defeating these monsters, he had to move
fast before Sump came back with the salsa.

He looked up at the engine block suspended right above the Cyclopes’
campsite.  He  wished  he  could  use  that—it  would  make  a  great  weapon.
But  the  crane  holding  it  was  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  conveyor  belt.
There  was  no  way  Leo  could  get  over  there  without  being  seen,  and
besides, he was running short on time.

The  last  part  of  his  plan  was  the  trickiest.  From  his  tool  belt  he
summoned  some  wires,  a  radio  adapter,  and  a  smaller  screwdriver  and
started to build a universal remote. For the first time, he said a silent thank-
you to his dad—Hephaestus—for the magic tool belt. Get me out of here,
he prayed, and maybe you’re not such a jerk.

Piper  kept  talking,  laying  on  the  praise.  “Oh,  I’ve  heard  about  the
northern  Cyclopes!”  Which  Leo  figured  was  bull,  but  she  sounded
convincing. “I never knew you were so big and clever!”

“Flattery  won’t  work  either,”  Ma  Gasket  said,  though  she  sounded

pleased. “It’s true, you’ll be breakfast for the best Cyclopes around.”

“But  aren’t  Cyclopes  good?”  Piper  asked.  “I  thought  you  made

weapons for the gods.”

“Bah! I’m very good. Good at eating people. Good at smashing. And
good  at  building  things,  yes,  but  not  for  the  gods.  Our  cousins,  the  elder
Cyclopes,  they  do  this,  yes.  Thinking  they’re  so  high  and  mighty  ’cause

they’re  a  few  thousand  years  older.  Then  there’s  our  southern  cousins,
living  on  islands  and  tending  sheep.  Morons!  But  we  Hyperborean
Cyclopes,  the  northern clan,  we’re the  best! Founded Monocle  Motors in
this  old  factory—the  best  weapons,  armor,  chariots,  fuel-efficient  SUVs!
And yet—bah! Forced to shut down. Laid off most of our tribe. The war
was too quick. Titans lost. No good! No more need for Cyclops weapons.”
“Oh,  no,”  Piper  sympathized.  “I’m  sure  you  made  some  amazing

weapons.”

Torque  grinned.  “Squeaky  war  hammer!”  He  picked  up  a  large  pole

with an accordion-looking metal box on the end.

He slammed it against the floor and the cement cracked, but there was

also a sound like the world’s largest rubber ducky getting stomped.

“Terrifying,” Piper said.
Torque looked pleased. “Not as good as the exploding ax, but this one

can be used more than once.”

“Can I see it?” Piper asked. “If you could just free my hands—”
Torque  stepped  forward  eagerly,  but  Ma  Gasket  said,  “Stupid!  She’s
tricking  you  again.  Enough  talk!  Slay  the  boy  first  before  he  dies  on  his
own. I like my meat fresh.”

No! Leo’s fingers flew, connecting the wires for the remote. Just a few

more minutes!

“Hey, wait,” Piper said, trying to get the Cyclopes’ attention. “Hey, can

I just ask—”

The wires sparked in Leo’s hand. The Cyclopes froze and turned in his

direction. Then Torque picked up a truck and threw it at him.

Leo rolled as the truck steamrolled over the machinery. If he’d been a half-
second slower, he would’ve been smashed.

He  got  to  his  feet,  and  Ma  Gasket  spotted  him.  She  yelled,  “Torque,

you pathetic excuse for a Cyclops, get him!”

Torque barreled toward him. Leo frantically gunned the toggle on his

makeshift remote.

Torque was fifty feet away. Twenty feet.
Then  the  first  robotic  arm  whirred  to  life.  A  three-ton  yellow  metal
claw slammed the Cyclops in the back so hard, he landed flat on his face.

Before Torque could recover, the robotic hand grabbed him by one leg and
hurled him straight up.

“AHHHHH!”  Torque  rocketed  into  the  gloom.  The  ceiling  was  too
dark and too high up to see exactly what happened, but judging from the
harsh  metal  clang,  Leo  guessed  the  Cyclops  had  hit  one  of  the  support
girders.

Torque  never  came  down.  Instead,  yellow  dust  rained  to  the  floor.

Torque had disintegrated.

Ma Gasket stared at Leo in shock. “My son … You … You …”
As  if  on  cue,  Sump  lumbered  into  the  firelight  with  a  case  of  salsa.

“Ma, I got the extra-spicy—”

He never finished his sentence. Leo spun the remote’s toggle, and the
second  robotic  arm  whacked  Sump  in  the  chest.  The  salsa  case  exploded
like  a  piñata  and  Sump  flew  backward,  right  into  the  base  of  Leo’s  third
machine. Sump may have been immune to getting hit with truck chasses,
but  he  wasn’t  immune  to  robotic  arms  that  could  deliver  ten  thousand
pounds  of  force.  The  third  crane  arm  slammed  him  against  the  floor  so
hard, he exploded into dust like a broken flour sack.

Two Cyclopes down. Leo was beginning to feel like Commander Tool
Belt  when  Ma  Gasket  locked  her  eye  on  him.  She  grabbed  the  nearest
crane arm and ripped it off its pedestal with a savage roar. “You busted my
boys! Only I get to bust my boys!”

Leo punched a button, and the two remaining arms swung into action.
Ma Gasket caught the first one and tore it in half. The second arm smacked
her in the head, but that only seemed to make her mad. She grabbed it by
the clamps, ripped it free, and swung it like a baseball bat. It missed Piper
and Jason by an inch. Then Ma Gasket let it go—spinning it toward Leo.
He yelped and rolled to one side as it demolished the machine next to him.
Leo started to realize that an angry Cyclops mother was not something
you wanted to fight with a universal remote and a screwdriver. The future
for Commander Tool Belt was not looking so hot.

She  stood  about  twenty  feet  from  him  now,  next  to  the  cooking  fire.
Her fists were clenched, her teeth bared. She looked ridiculous in her chain
mail  muumuu  and  her  greasy  pigtails—but  given  the  murderous  glare  in
her  huge  red  eye  and  the  fact  that  she  was  twelve  feet  tall,  Leo  wasn’t
laughing.

“Any more tricks, demigod?” Ma Gasket demanded.
Leo  glanced  up.  The  engine  block  suspended  on  the  chain—if  only
he’d  had  time  to  rig  it.  If  only  he  could  get  Ma  Gasket  to  take  one  step
forward. The chain itself … that one link … Leo shouldn’t have been able
to  see  it,  especially  from  so  far  down,  but  his  senses  told  him  there  was
metal fatigue.

“Heck,  yeah,  I  got  tricks!”  Leo  raised  his  remote  control.  “Take  one

more step, and I’ll destroy you with fire!”

Ma  Gasket  laughed.  “Would  you?  Cyclopes  are  immune  to  fire,  you

idiot. But if you wish to play with flames, let me help!”

She scooped red-hot coals into her bare hands and flung them at Leo.

They landed all around his feet.

“You  missed,”  he  said  incredulously.  Then  Ma  Gasket  grinned  and
picked up a barrel next to the truck. Leo just had time to read the stenciled
word on the side—kerosene —before Ma Gasket threw it. The barrel split
on the floor in front of him, spilling lighter fluid everywhere.

Coals sparked. Leo closed his eyes, and Piper screamed, “No!”
A  firestorm  erupted  around  him.  When  Leo  opened  his  eyes  he  was

bathed in flames swirling twenty feet into the air.

Ma Gasket shrieked with delight, but Leo didn’t offer the fire any good
fuel.  The  kerosene  burned  off,  dying  down  to  small  fiery  patches  on  the
floor.

Piper gasped. “Leo?”
Ma  Gasket  looked  astonished.  “You  live?”  Then  she  took  that  extra

step forward, which put her right where Leo wanted. “What are you?”

“The son of Hephaestus,” Leo said. “And I warned you I’d destroy you

with fire.”

He pointed one finger in the air and summoned all his will. He’d never
tried to do anything so focused and intense—but he shot a bolt of white-
hot  flames  at  the  chain  suspending  the  engine  block  above  the  Cyclops’s
head—aiming for the link that looked weaker than rest.

The  flames  died.  Nothing  happened.  Ma  Gasket  laughed.  “An
impressive try, son of Hephaestus. It’s been many centuries since I saw a
fire user. You’ll make a spicy appetizer!”

The chain snapped—that single link heated beyond its tolerance point

—and the engine block fell, deadly and silent.

“I don’t think so,” Leo said.
Ma Gasket didn’t even have time to look up.
Smash! No more Cyclops—just a pile of dust under a five-ton engine

block.

“Not immune to engines, huh?” Leo said. “Boo-yah!”
Then  he  fell  to  his  knees,  his  head  buzzing.  After  a  few  minutes  he

realized Piper was calling his name.

“Leo! Are you all right? Can you move?”
He  stumbled to  his  feet. He’d  never  tried  to  summon such an intense

fire before, and it had left him completely drained.

It  took  him  a  long  time  to  get  Piper  down  from  her  chains.  Then
together they lowered Jason, who was still unconscious. Piper managed to
trickle a little nectar into his mouth, and he groaned. The welt on his head
started to shrink. His color came back a little.

“Yeah,  he’s  got  a  nice  thick  skull,”  Leo  said.  “I  think  he’s  gonna  be

fine.”

“Thank  god,”  Piper  sighed.  Then  she  looked  at  Leo  with  something

like fear. “How did you—the fire—have you always … ?”

Leo looked down. “Always,” he said. “I’m a freaking menace. Sorry, I

should’ve told you guys sooner but—”

“Sorry?” Piper punched his arm. When he looked up, she was grinning.
“That  was  amazing,  Valdez!  You  saved  our  lives.  What  are  you  sorry
about?”

Leo  blinked.  He  started  to  smile,  but  his  sense  of  relief  was  ruined

when he noticed something next to Piper’s foot.

Yellow  dust—the  powdered  remains  of  one  of  the  Cyclopes,  maybe
Torque—was shifting across the floor like an invisible wind was pushing it
back together.

“They’re forming again,” Leo said. “Look.”
Piper stepped away from the dust. “That’s not possible. Annabeth told
me  monsters  dissipate when  they’re killed.  They go back to  Tartarus  and
can’t return for a long time.”

“Well,  nobody  told  the  dust  that.”  Leo  watched  as  it  collected  into  a

pile, then very slowly spread out, forming a shape with arms and legs.

“Oh, god.” Piper turned pale. “Boreas said something about this—the
earth yielding up horrors. ‘When monsters no longer stay in Tartarus, and
souls are no longer confined to Hades.’ How long do you think we have?”
Leo thought about the face that had formed in the ground outside—the

sleeping woman who was definitely a horror from the earth.

“I don’t know,” he said. “But we need to get out of here.”

JASON  DREAMED  HE  WAS  WRAPPED in  chains,  hanging  upside  down like a
hunk  of  meat.  Everything  hurt—his  arms,  his  legs,  his  chest,  his  head.
Especially his head. It felt like an overinflated water balloon.
“If I’m dead,” he murmured, “why does it hurt so much?”
“You’re not dead, my hero,” said a woman’s voice. “It is not your time.

Come, speak with me.”

Jason’s  thoughts  floated  away  from  his  body.  He  heard  monsters
yelling,  his  friends  screaming,  fiery  explosions,  but  it  all  seemed  to  be
happening  on  another  plane  of  existence  —getting  farther  and  farther
away.

He  found  himself  standing  in  an  earthen  cage.  Tendrils  of  tree  roots
and stone whirled together, confining him. Outside the bars, he could see
the floor of a dry reflecting pool, another earthen spire growing at the far
end, and above them, the ruined red stones of a burned-out house.

Next to him in the cage, a woman sat cross-legged in black robes, her
head covered by a shroud. She pushed aside her veil, revealing a face that
was proud and beautiful—but also hardened with suffering.

“Hera,” Jason said.
“Welcome  to  my  prison,”  said  the  goddess.  “You  will  not  die  today,

Jason. Your friends will see you through—for now.”

“For now?” he asked.
Hera  gestured  at  the  tendrils  of  her  cage.  “There  are  worse  trials  to

come. The very earth stirs against us.”

“You’re a goddess,” Jason said. “Why can’t you just escape?”
Hera  smiled  sadly.  Her  form  began  to  glow,  until  her  brilliance  filled
the  cage  with  painful  light.  The  air  hummed  with  power,  molecules

splitting apart like a nuclear explosion. Jason suspected if he were actually
there in the flesh, he would’ve been vaporized.

The cage should’ve been blasted to rubble. The ground should’ve split
and the ruined house should’ve been leveled. But when the glow died, the
cage  hadn’t  budged.  Nothing  outside  the  bars  had  changed.  Only  Hera
looked different—a little more stooped and tired.

“Some  powers  are  even  greater  than  the  gods,”  she  said.  “I  am  not
easily contained. I can be in many places at once. But when the greater part
of  my  essence  is  caught,  it  is  like  a  foot  in  a  bear  trap,  you  might  say.  I
can’t escape, and I am concealed from the eyes of the other gods. Only you
can find me, and I grow weaker by the day.”

“Then why did you come here?” Jason asked. “How were you caught?”
The goddess sighed. “I could not stay idle. Your father Jupiter believes
he can withdraw from the world, and thus lull our enemies back to sleep.
He  believes  we  Olympians  have  become  too  involved  in  the  affairs  of
mortals, in the fates of our demigod children, especially since we agreed to
claim  them  all  after  the  war.  He  believes  this  is  what  has  caused  our
enemies to stir. That is why he closed Olympus.”

“But you don’t agree.”
“No,” she said. “Often I do not understand my husband’s moods or his
decisions,  but  even  for  Zeus,  this  seemed  paranoid.  I  cannot  fathom  why
he  was  so  insistent  and  so  convinced.  It  was  …  unlike  him.  As  Hera,  I
might have been content to follow my lord’s wishes. But I am also Juno.”
Her image flickered, and Jason saw armor under her simple black robes, a
goatskin  cloak—the  symbol  of  a  Roman  warrior—across  her  bronze
mantle. “Juno Moneta they once called me—Juno, the One Who Warns. I
was guardian of the state, patron of Eternal Rome. I could not sit by while
the descendants of my people were attacked. I sensed danger at this sacred
spot. A voice—” She hesitated. “A voice told me I should come here. Gods
do not have what you might call a conscience, nor do we have dreams; but
the voice was like that—soft and persistent, warning me to come here. And
so the same day Zeus closed Olympus, I slipped away without telling him
my plans, so he could not stop me. And I came here to investigate.”

“It was a trap,” Jason guessed.
The goddess nodded. “Only too late did I realize how quickly the earth
was  stirring.  I  was  even  more  foolish  than  Jupiter—a  slave  to  my  own

impulses.  This  is  exactly  how  it  happened  the  first  time.  I  was  taken
captive  by  the  giants,  and  my  imprisonment  started  a  war.  Now  our
enemies  rise  again.  The  gods  can  only  defeat  them  with  the  help  of  the
greatest living heroes. And the one whom the giants serve …she cannot be
defeated at all—only kept asleep.”

“I don’t understand.”
“You will soon,” Hera said.
The cage began to constrict, the tendrils spiraling tighter. Hera’s form
shivered like a candle  flame  in  the  breeze.  Outside  the  cage, Jason could
see shapes  gathering  at  the  edge of the  pool—lumbering  humanoids  with
hunched  backs  and  bald  heads.  Unless  Jason’s  eyes  were  tricking  him—
they  had  more  than  one  set  of  arms.  He  heard  wolves  too,  but  not  the
wolves  he’d  seen  with  Lupa.  He  could  tell  from  their  howls  this  was  a
different pack—hungrier, more aggressive, out for blood.

“Hurry,  Jason,”  Hera  said.  “My  keepers  approach,  and  you  begin  to
wake. I will not be strong enough to appear to you again, even in dreams.”
“Wait,” he said. “Boreas told us you’d made a dangerous gamble. What

did he mean?”

Hera’s  eyes  looked  wild,  and  Jason  wondered  if  she  really  had  done

something crazy.

“An  exchange,”  she  said.  “The  only  way  to  bring  peace.  The  enemy
counts on our divisions, and if we are divided, we will be destroyed. You
are my peace offering, Jason—a bridge to overcome millennia of hatred.”

“What? I don’t—”
“I  cannot  tell  you  more,”  Hera  said.  “You  have  only  lived  this  long

because I have taken your memory. Find this place.

Return to your starting point. Your sister will help.”
“Thalia?”
The scene began to dissolve. “Good-bye, Jason. Beware Chicago. Your
most dangerous mortal enemy waits there. If you are to die, it will be by
her hand.”

“Who?” he demanded.
But Hera’s image faded, and Jason awoke.

His eyes snapped open. “Cyclops!”

“Whoa,  sleepyhead.”  Piper  sat  behind  him  on  the  bronze  dragon,
holding  his  waist  to  keep  him  balanced.  Leo  sat  in  front,  driving.  They
flew peacefully through the winter sky as if nothing had happened.

“D-Detroit,” Jason stammered. “Didn’t we crash-land? I thought—”
“It’s  okay,”  Leo  said.  “We  got  away,  but  you  got  a  nasty  concussion.

How you feeling?”

Jason’s head throbbed. He remembered the factory, then walking down
the  catwalk,  then  a  creature  looming  over  him—a  face  with  one  eye,  a
massive fist—and everything went black.
“How did you—the Cyclops—”
“Leo  ripped  them  apart,”  Piper  said.  “He  was  amazing.  He  can

summon fire—”

“It was nothing,” Leo said quickly.
Piper laughed. “Shut up, Valdez. I’m going to tell him. Get over it.”
And she did—how Leo single-handedly defeated the Cyclopes family;
how they freed Jason, then noticed the Cyclopes starting to re-form; how
Leo had replaced the dragon’s wiring and gotten them back in the air just
as  they’d  started  to  hear  the  Cyclopes  roaring  for  vengeance  inside  the
factory.

Jason  was  impressed.  Taking  out  three  Cyclopes  with  nothing  but  a
tool kit? Not bad. It didn’t exactly scare him to hear how close he’d come
to  death,  but  it  did  make  him  feel  horrible.  He’d  stepped  right  into  an
ambush and spent the whole fight knocked out while his friends fended for
themselves. What kind of quest leader was he?

When Piper told him about the other kid the Cyclopes claimed to have
eaten, the one in the purple shirt who spoke Latin, Jason felt like his head
was going to explode. A son of Mercury … Jason felt like he should know
that kid, but the name was missing from his mind.

“I’m not alone, then,” he said. “There are others like me.”
“Jason,” Piper said, “you were never alone. You’ve got us.”
“I—I know … but something Hera said. I was having a dream…”
He told them what he’d seen, and what the goddess had said inside her

cage.

“An exchange?” Piper asked. “What does that mean?”

Jason shook his head. “But Hera’s gamble is me. Just by sending me to
Camp Half-Blood, I have a feeling she broke some kind of rule, something
that could blow up in a big way—”

“Or save us,” Piper said hopefully. “That bit about the sleeping enemy

—that sounds like the lady Leo told us about.”

Leo cleared his throat. “About that … she kind of appeared to me back

in Detroit, in a pool of Porta-Potty sludge.”

Jason wasn’t sure he’d heard that right. “Did you say … Porta-Potty?”
Leo told them about the big face in the factory yard. “I don’t know if
she’s completely unkillable,” he said, “but she cannot be defeated by toilet
seats. I can vouch for that. She wanted me to betray you guys, and I was
like, ‘Pfft, right, I’m gonna listen to a face in the potty sludge.’”

“She’s trying to divide us.” Piper slipped her arms from around Jason’s

waist. He could sense her tension without even looking at her.

“What’s wrong?” he asked.
“I just … Why are they toying with us? Who is this lady, and how is

she connected to Enceladus?”

“Enceladus?” Jason didn’t think he’d heard that name before.
“I mean …” Piper’s voice quavered. “That’s one of the giants. Just one

of the names I could remember.”

Jason got the feeling there was a lot more bothering her, but he decided

he not to press her. She’d had a rough morning.

Leo scratched his head. “Well, I dunno about Enchiladas—”
“Enceladus,” Piper corrected.
“Whatever.  But  Old  Potty  Face  mentioned  another  name.  Porpoise

Fear, or something?”

“Porphyrion?” Piper asked. “He was the giant king, I think.”
Jason  envisioned  that  dark  spire  in  the  old  reflecting  pool—growing
larger as Hera got weaker. “I’m going to take wild guess,” he said. “In the
old stories, Porphyrion kidnapped Hera. That was the first shot in the war
between the giants and the gods.”

“I  think  so,”  Piper  agreed.  “But  those  myths  are  really  garbled  and
conflicted.  It’s  almost  like  nobody  wanted  that  story  to  survive.  I  just
remember there was a war, and the giants were almost impossible to kill.”

“Heroes and gods had to work together,” Jason said. “That’s what Hera

told me.”

“Kind  of  hard  to  do,”  Leo  grumbled,  “if  the  gods  won’t  even  talk  to

us.”

They  flew  west,  and  Jason  became  lost  in  his  thoughts—all  of  them
bad.  He  wasn’t  sure  how  much  time  passed  before  the  dragon  dove
through a break in the clouds, and below them, glittering in the winter sun,
was  a city at  the  edge of a massive  lake.  A crescent  of skyscrapers lined
the shore. Behind them, stretching out to the western horizon, was a vast
grid of snow-covered neighborhoods and roads.

“Chicago,” Jason said.
He  thought  about  what  Hera  had  said  in  his  dream.  His  worst  mortal
enemy would be waiting here. If he was going to die, it would be by her
hand.

“One problem down,” Leo said. “We got here alive. Now, how do we

find the storm spirits?”

Jason saw a flash of movement below them. At first he thought it was a
small  plane,  but  it  was  too  small,  too  dark  and  fast.  The  thing  spiraled
toward  the  skyscrapers,  weaving  and  changing  shape—and,  just  for  a
moment it became the smoky figure of a horse.

“How  about  we  follow  that  one,”  Jason  suggested,  “and  see  where  it

goes?”

JASON WAS AFRAID THEY’D LOSE THEIR TARGET. The ventus moved  like …
well, like the wind.

“Speed up!” he urged.
“Bro,” Leo said, “if I get any closer, he’ll spot us. Bronze dragon ain’t

exactly a stealth plane.”

“Slow down!” Piper yelped.
The storm spirit dove into the grid of downtown streets. Festus tried to
follow, but his wingspan was way too wide. His left wing clipped the edge
of a building, slicing off a stone gargoyle before Leo pulled up.

“Get  above  the  buildings,”  Jason  suggested.  “We’ll  track  him  from

there.”

“You want to drive this thing?” Leo grumbled, but he did what Jason

asked.

After  a  few  minutes,  Jason  spotted  the  storm  spirit  again,  zipping
through  the  streets  with  no  apparent  purpose—blowing  over  pedestrians,
ruffling flags, making cars swerve.

“Oh great,” Piper said. “There’re two.”
She  was  right.  A  second  ventus  blasted  around  the  corner  of  the
Renaissance  Hotel  and  linked  up  with  the  first.  They  wove  together  in  a
chaotic dance, shooting to the top of a skyscraper, bending a radio tower,
and diving back down toward the street.

“Those guys do not need any more caffeine,” Leo said.
“I  guess  Chicago’s  a  good  place  to  hang  out,”  Piper  said.  “Nobody’s

going to question a couple more evil winds.”

“More than a couple,” Jason said. “Look.”
The dragon circled over a wide avenue next to a lake-side park. Storm
spirits  were  converging—at  least  a  dozen  of  them,  whirling  around  a  big

public art installation.

“Which  one  do  you  think  is  Dylan?”  Leo  asked.  “I  wanna  throw

something at him.”

But Jason focused on the art installation. The closer they got to it, the
faster his heart beat. It was just a public fountain, but it was unpleasantly
familiar.  Two  five-story  monoliths  rose  from  either  end  of  a  long  granite
reflecting  pool.  The  monoliths  seemed  to  be  built  of  video  screens,
flashing  the  combined  image  of  a  giant  face  that  spewed  water  into  the
pool.

Maybe it was just a coincidence, but it looked like a high-tech, super-
size  version  of  that  ruined  reflecting  pool  he’d  seen  in  his  dreams,  with
those  two  dark  masses  jutting  from  either  end.  As  Jason  watched,  the
image on the screens changed to a woman’s face with her eyes closed.

“Leo …” he said nervously.
“I see her,” Leo said. “I don’t like her, but I see her.”
Then  the  screens  went  dark.  The  venti  swirled  together  into  a  single
funnel  cloud  and  skittered  across  the  fountain,  kicking  up  a  waterspout
almost as high as the monoliths. They got to its center, popped off a drain
cover, and disappeared underground.

“Did they just go down a drain?” Piper asked. “How are we supposed

to follow them?”

“Maybe  we  shouldn’t,”  Leo  said.  “That  fountain  thing  is  giving  me

seriously bad vibes. And aren’t we supposed to, like, beware the earth?”

Jason felt the same way, but they had to follow. It was their only way
forward. They had to find Hera, and they now had only two days until the
solstice.

“Put us down in that park,” he suggested. “We’ll check it out on foot.”

Festus landed in an open area between the lake and the skyline. The signs
said Grant Park, and Jason imagined it would’ve been a nice place in the
summer;  but  now  it  was  a  field  of  ice,  snow,  and  salted  walkways.  The
dragon’s  hot  metal  feet  hissed  as  they  touched  down.  Festus  flapped  his
wings unhappily and shot fire into the sky, but there was no one around to
notice. The wind coming off the lake was bitter cold. Anyone with sense
would be inside. Jason’s eyes stung so badly, he could barely see.

They dismounted, and Festus the dragon stomped his feet. One of his

ruby eyes flickered, so it looked like he was blinking.

“Is that normal?” Jason asked.
Leo pulled a rubber mallet from his tool bag. He whacked the dragon’s
bad eye, and the light went back to normal. “Yes,” Leo said. “Festus can’t
hang around here, though, in the middle of the park. They’ll arrest him for
loitering. Maybe if I had a dog whistle …”

He rummaged in his tool belt, but came up with nothing.
“Too specialized?” he guessed. “Okay, give me a safety whistle. They

got that in lots of machine shops.”

This time, Leo pulled out a big plastic orange whistle. “Coach Hedge
would  be  jealous!  Okay,  Festus,  listen.”  Leo  blew  the  whistle.  The  shrill
sound probably  rolled  all the  way  across  Lake Michigan.  “You  hear  that,
come find me, okay? Until then, you fly wherever you want. Just try not to
barbecue any pedestrians.”

The  dragon  snorted—hopefully  in  agreement.  Then  he  spread  his

wings and launched into the air.

Piper took one step and winced. “Ah!”
“Your ankle?” Jason felt bad he’d forgotten about her injury back in the

Cyclops factory. “That nectar we gave you might be wearing off.”

“It’s fine.” She shivered, and Jason remembered his promise to get her
a new snowboarding coat. He hoped he lived long enough to find her one.
She took a few more steps with only a slight limp, but Jason could tell she
was trying not to grimace.

“Let’s get out of the wind,” he suggested.
“Down a drain?” Piper shuddered. “Sounds cozy.”
They wrapped themselves up as best they could and headed toward the

fountain.

* * *

According to the plaque, it was called Crown Fountain. All the water had
emptied out except for a few patches that were starting to freeze. It didn’t
seem right to Jason that the fountain would have water in it in the winter

anyway.  Then  again,  those  big  monitors  had  flashed  the  face  of  their
mysterious enemy Dirt Woman. Nothing about this place was right.

They  stepped  to  the  center  of  the  pool.  No  spirits  tried  to  stop  them.
The giant monitor walls stayed dark. The drain hole was easily big enough
for a person, and a maintenance ladder led down into the gloom.

Jason went first. As he climbed, he braced himself for horrible sewer
smells, but it wasn’t that bad. The ladder dropped into a brickwork tunnel
running  north  to  south.  The  air  was  warm  and  dry,  with  only  a  trickle  of
water on the floor.

Piper and Leo climbed down after him.
“Are all sewers this nice?” Piper wondered.
“No,” Leo said. “Trust me.”
Jason frowned. “How do you know—”
“Hey, man, I ran away six times. I’ve slept in some weird places, okay?

Now, which way do we go?”

Jason tilted his head, listening, then pointed south. “That way.”
“How can you be sure?” Piper asked.
“There’s  a  draft  blowing  south,”  Jason  said.  “Maybe  the  venti  went

with the flow.”

It wasn’t much of a lead, but nobody offered anything better.
Unfortunately,  as  soon  as  they  started  walking,  Piper  stumbled.  Jason

had to catch her.

“Stupid ankle,” she cursed.
“Let’s  rest,”  Jason  decided.  “We  could  all  use  it.  We’ve  been  going
nonstop  for  over  a  day.  Leo,  can  you  pull  any  food  from  that  tool  belt
besides breath mints?”

“Thought you’d never ask. Chef Leo is on it!”
Piper  and  Jason  sat  on  a  brick  ledge  while  Leo  shuffled  through  his

pack.

Jason  was  glad  to  rest.  He  was  still  tired  and  dizzy,  and  hungry,  too.
But mostly, he wasn’t eager to face whatever lay ahead. He turned his gold
coin in his fingers.

If you are to die, Hera had warned, it will be by her hand.

Whoever “her” was. After Khione, the Cyclops mother, and the weird
sleeping lady, the last thing Jason needed was another psycho villainess in
his life.

“It wasn’t your fault,” Piper said.
He looked at her blankly. “What?”
“Getting jumped by the Cyclopes,” she said. “It wasn’t your fault.”
He looked down at the coin in his palm. “I was stupid. I left you alone

and walked into a trap. I should’ve known…”

He didn’t finish. There were too many things he should have known—
who he was, how to fight monsters, how Cyclopes lured their victims by
mimicking  voices  and  hiding  in  shadows  and  a  hundred  other  tricks.  All
that information was supposed to be in his head. He could feel the places it
should be—like empty pockets. If Hera wanted him to succeed, why had
she stolen the memories that could help him? She claimed his amnesia had
kept him alive, but that made no sense. He was starting to understand why
Annabeth had wanted to leave the goddess in her cage.

“Hey.”  Piper  nudged  his  arm.  “Cut  yourself  some  slack.  Just  because

you’re the son of Zeus doesn’t mean you’re a one-man army.”

A few feet away, Leo lit a small cooking fire. He hummed as he pulled

supplies out of his pack and his tool belt.

In the firelight, Piper’s eyes seemed to dance. Jason had been studying

them for days now, and he still couldn’t decide what color they were.

“I know this must suck for you,” he said. “Not just the quest, I mean.
The  way  I  appeared  on  the  bus,  the  Mist  messing  with  your  mind,  and
making you think I was …you know.”

She dropped her gaze. “Yeah, well. None of us asked for this. It’s not

your fault.”

She  tugged  at  the  little  braids  on  each  side  of  her  head.  Again,  Jason
thought how glad he was that she’d lost the Aphrodite blessing. With the
makeup and the dress and the perfect hair, she’d looked about twenty-five,
glamorous, and completely out of his league. He’d never thought of beauty
as a form of power, but that’s the way Piper had seemed—powerful.

He  liked  regular  Piper  better—someone  he  could  hang  out  with.  But
the weird thing was, he couldn’t quite get that other image out of his head.

It hadn’t been an illusion. That side of Piper was there too. She just did her
best to hide it.

“Back  in  the  factory,”  Jason  said,  “you  were  you  going  to  say

something about your dad.”

She traced her finger over the bricks, almost like she was writing out a

scream she didn’t want to vocalize. “Was I?”

“Piper,” he said, “he’s in some kind of trouble, isn’t it?”
Over at the fire, Leo stirred some sizzling bell peppers and meat in a

pan. “Yeah, baby! Almost there.”

Piper looked on the verge of tears. “Jason … I can’t talk about it.”
“We’re your friends. Let us help.”
That seemed to make her feel worse. She took a shaky breath. “I wish I

could, but—”

“And bingo!” Leo announced.
He came over with three plates stacked on his arms like a waiter. Jason
had no idea where he’d gotten all the food, or how he’d put it together so
fast, but it looked amazing: pepper and beef tacos with chips and salsa.

“Leo,” Piper said in amazement. “How did you—?”
“Chef Leo’s Taco Garage is fixing you up!” he said proudly. “And by

the way, it’s tofu, not beef, beauty queen, so don’t freak. Just dig in!”

Jason wasn’t sure about tofu, but the tacos tasted as good as they smelled.
While they ate, Leo tried to lighten the mood and joke around. Jason was
grateful Leo was with them. It made being with Piper a little less intense
and uncomfortable. At the same time, he kind of wished he was alone with
her; but he chided himself for feeling that way.

After  Piper  ate,  Jason  encouraged  her  to  get  some  sleep.  Without
another word, she curled up and put her head in his lap. In two seconds she
was snoring.

Jason looked up at Leo, who was obviously trying not to laugh.
They  sat  in  silence  for  a  few  minutes,  drinking  lemonade  Leo  had

made from canteen water and powdered mix.

“Good, huh?” Leo grinned.
“You should start a stand,” Jason said. “Make some serious coin.”

But  as  he  stared  at  the  embers  of  the  fire,  something  began  to  bother

him. “Leo … about this fire stuff you can do … is it true?”

Leo’s smile faltered. “Yeah, well …” He opened his hand. A small ball

of flame burst to life, dancing across his palm.

“That is so cool,” Jason said. “Why didn’t you say anything?”
Leo closed his hand and the fire went out. “Didn’t want to look like a

freak.”

“I  have  lightning  and  wind  powers,”  Jason  reminded  him.  “Piper  can
turn beautiful and charm people into giving her BMWs. You’re no more a
freak  than  we  are.  And,  hey,  maybe  you  can  fly,  too.  Like  jump  off  a
building and yell, ‘Flame on!’”

Leo snorted. “If I did that, you would see a flaming kid falling to his
death, and I would be yelling something a little stronger than ‘Flame on!’
Trust me, Hephaestus cabin doesn’t see fire powers as cool. Nyssa told me
they’re  super  rare.  When  a  demigod  like  me  comes  around,  bad  things
happen. Really bad.”

“Maybe  it’s  the  other  way  around,”  Jason  suggested.  “Maybe  people
with  special  gifts  show  up  when  bad  things  are  happening  because  that’s
when they’re needed most.”

Leo  cleared  away  the  plates.  “Maybe.  But  I’m  telling  you  …  it’s  not

always a gift.”

Jason  fell  silent.  “You’re  talking  about  your  mom,  aren’t  you?  The

night she died.”

Leo  didn’t  answer.  He  didn’t  have  to.  The  fact  that  he  was  quiet,  not

joking around—that told Jason enough.

“Leo,  her  death  wasn’t  your  fault.  Whatever  happened  that  night—it
wasn’t because you could summon fire. This Dirt Woman, whoever she is,
has been trying to ruin you for years, mess up your confidence, take away
everything  you  care  about.  She’s  trying  to  make  you  feel  like  a  failure.
You’re not. You’re important.”

“That’s what she said.” Leo looked up, his eyes full of pain. “She said I
was  meant  to  do  something  important—something  that  would  make  or
break that big prophecy about the seven demigods. That’s what scares me.
I don’t know if I’m up to it.”

Jason wanted to tell him everything would be all right, but it would’ve
sounded  fake.  Jason  didn’t  know  what  would  happen.  They  were
demigods, which meant sometimes things didn’t end okay. Sometimes you
got eaten by the Cyclops.

If you asked most kids, “Hey, you want to summon fire or lightning or
magical  makeup?”  they’d  think  it  sounded  pretty  cool.  But  those  powers
went along with hard stuff, like sitting in a sewer in the middle of winter,
running from monsters, losing your memory, watching your friends almost
get cooked, and having dreams that warned you of your own death.

Leo poked at the remnants of his fire, turning over red-hot coals with
his bare hand. “You ever wonder about the other four demigods? I mean …
if  we’re  three  of  the  ones  from  the  Great  Prophecy,  who  are  the  others?
Where are they?”

Jason had thought about it, all right, but he tried to push it out of his
mind. He had a horrible suspicion that he would be expected to lead those
other demigods, and he was afraid he would fail.

You’ll tear each other apart, Boreas had promised.
Jason had been trained never to show fear. He was sure of that from his
dream with the wolves. He was supposed to act confident, even if he didn’t
feel it. But Leo and Piper were depending on him, and he was terrified of
failing them. If he had to lead a group of six—six who might not get along
—that would be even worse.

“I  don’t  know,”  he  said  at  last.  “I  guess  the  other  four  will  show  up
when  the  time  is  right.  Who  knows?  Maybe  they’re  on  some  other  quest
right now.”

Leo grunted. “I bet their sewer is nicer than ours.”
The draft picked up, blowing toward the south end of the tunnel.
“Get some rest, Leo,” Jason said. “I’ll take first watch.”

It was hard to measure time, but Jason figured his friends slept about four
hours. Jason didn’t mind. Now that he was resting, he didn’t really feel the
need  for  more  sleep.  He’d  been  conked  out  long  enough  on  the  dragon.
Plus, he needed time to think about the quest, his sister Thalia, and Hera’s
warnings.  He  also  didn’t  mind  Piper’s  using  him  for  a  pillow.  She  had  a
cute way of breathing when she slept—inhaling through the nose, exhaling

with a little puff through the mouth. He was almost disappointed when she
woke up.

Finally they broke camp and started down the tunnel.
It  twisted  and  turned  and  seemed  to  go  on  forever.  Jason  wasn’t  sure
what  to  expect  at  the  end—a  dungeon,  a  mad  scientist’s  lab,  or  maybe  a
sewer reservoir where all Porta-Potty sludge ends up, forming an evil toilet
face large enough to swallow the world.

Instead,  they  found  polished  steel  elevator  doors,  each  one  engraved
with  a  cursive  letter  M.  Next  to  the  elevator  was  a  directory,  like  for  a
department store.

“M  for  Macy’s?”  Piper  guessed.  “I  think  they  have  one  in  downtown

Chicago.”

“Or  Monocle  Motors  still?”  Leo  said.  “Guys,  read  the  directory.  It’s

messed up.”

Parking, Kennels, Main Entrance: Sewer Level
Furnishings and Café M: 1
Women’s Fashion and Magical Appliances: 2
Men’s Wear and Weaponry: 3
Cosmetics, Potions, Poisons & Sundries: 4

“Kennels  for  what?”  Piper  said.  “And  what  kind  of  department  store

has its entrance in a sewer?”

“Or sells poisons,” Leo said. “Man, what does ‘sundries’ even mean?

Is that like underwear?”

Jason took a deep breath. “When in doubt, start at the top.”

* * *

The doors slid open on the  fourth floor, and the  scent  of perfume wafted
into the elevator. Jason stepped out first, sword ready.

“Guys,” he said. “You’ve got to see this.”
Piper joined him and caught her breath. “This is not Macy’s.”
The  department  store  looked  like  the  inside  of  a  kaleidoscope.  The
entire ceiling was a stained glass mosaic with astrological signs around a

giant  sun.  The  daylight  streaming  through  it  washed  everything  in  a
thousand  different  colors.  The  upper  floors  made  a  ring  of  balconies
around  a  huge  central  atrium,  so  they  could  see  all  the  way  down  to  the
ground floor. Gold railings glittered so brightly, they were hard to look at.

Aside  from  the  stained  glass  ceiling  and  the  elevator,  Jason  couldn’t
see  any  other  windows  or  doors,  but  two  sets  of  glass  escalators  ran
between the levels. The carpeting was a riot of oriental patterns and colors,
and the racks of merchandise were just as bizarre. There was too much to
take it at once, but Jason saw normal stuff like shirt racks and shoe trees
mixed in with armored manikins, beds of nails, and fur coats that seemed
to be moving.

Leo stepped to the railing and looked down. “Check it out.”
In  the  middle  of  the  atrium  a  fountain  sprayed  water  twenty  feet  into
the air, changing color from red to yellow to blue. The pool glittered with
gold coins, and on either side of the fountain stood a gilded cage—like an
oversize canary cage.

Inside  one,  a  miniature  hurricane  swirled,  and  lightning  flashed.
Somebody  had  imprisoned  the  storm  spirits,  and  the  cage  shuddered  as
they  tried  to  get  out.  In  the  other,  frozen  like  a  statue,  was  a  short,  buff
satyr, holding a tree-branch club.

“Coach Hedge!” Piper said. “We’ve got to get down there.”
A voice said, “May I help you find something?”
All three of them jumped back.
A  woman  had  just  appeared  in  front  of  them.  She  wore  an  elegant
black  dress  with  diamond  jewelry,  and  she  looked  like  a  retired  fashion
model—maybe fifty years old, though it was hard for Jason to judge. Her
long dark hair swept over one shoulder, and her face was gorgeous in that
surreal  super-model  way—thin  and  haughty  and  cold,  not  quite  human.
With their long red-painted nails, her fingers looked more like talons.

She  smiled.  “I’m  so  happy  to  see  new  customers.  How  may  I  help

you?”

Leo glanced at Jason like, All yours.
“Um,” Jason started, “is this your store?”
The woman nodded. “I found it abandoned, you know. I understand so
many  stores  are,  these  days.  I  decided  it  would  make  the  perfect  place.  I

love collecting tasteful objects, helping people, and offering quality goods
at  a  reasonable  price.  So  this  seemed  a  good  …  how  do  you  say  …  first
acquisition in this country.”

She spoke with a pleasing accent, but Jason couldn’t guess where from.
Clearly  she  wasn’t  hostile,  though.  Jason  started  to  relax.  Her  voice  was
rich and exotic. Jason wanted to hear more.
“So you’re new to America?” he asked.
“I am … new,” the woman agreed. “I am the Princess of Colchis. My

friends call me Your Highness. Now, what are you looking for?”

Jason had heard of rich foreigners buying American department stores.
Of course most of the time they didn’t sell poisons, living fur coats, storm
spirits,  or  satyrs,  but  still—with  a  nice  voice  like  that,  the  Princess  of
Colchis couldn’t be all bad.

Piper poked him in the ribs. “Jason …”
“Um, right. Actually, Your Highness …” He pointed to the gilded cage
on the first floor. “That’s our friend down there, Gleeson Hedge. The satyr.
Could we … have him back, please?”

“Of  course!”  the  princess agreed  immediately. “I would love  to  show

you my inventory. First, may I know your names?”

Jason  hesitated.  It  seemed  like  a  bad  idea  to  give  out  their  names.  A
memory tugged at the back of his mind—something Hera had warned him
about, but it seemed fuzzy.

On  the  other  hand,  Her  Highness  was  on  the  verge  of  cooperating.  If
they  could  get  what  they  wanted  without  a  fight,  that  would  be  better.
Besides, this lady didn’t seem like an enemy.
Piper started to say, “Jason, I wouldn’t—”
“This is Piper,” he said. “This is Leo. I’m Jason.”
The  princess  fixed  her  eyes  on  him  and,  just  for  a  moment,  her  face
literally  glowed,  blazing  with  so  much  anger,  Jason  could  see  her  skull
beneath her skin. Jason’s mind was getting blurrier, but he knew something
didn’t seem right. Then the moment passed, and Her Highness looked like
a normal elegant woman again, with a cordial smile and a soothing voice.

“Jason.  What  an  interesting  name,”  she  said,  her  eyes  as  cold  as  the
Chicago wind. “I think we’ll have to make a special deal for you. Come,
children. Let’s go shopping.”

PIPER WANTED TO RUN FOR THE ELEVATOR.

Her  second  choice:  attack  the  weird  princess  now,  because  she  was
sure a fight was coming. The way the lady’s face glowed when she’d heard
Jason’s  name  had  been  bad  enough.  Now  Her  Highness  was  smiling  like
nothing  had  happened,  and  Jason  and  Leo  didn’t  seem  to  think  anything
was wrong.

The  princess  gestured  toward  the  cosmetics  counter.  “Shall  we  start

with the potions?”

“Cool,” Jason said.
“Guys,”  Piper  interrupted,  “we’re  here  to  get  the  storm  spirits  and

Coach Hedge. If this—princess—is really our friend—”

“Oh,  I’m  better  than  a  friend,  my  dear,”  Her  Highness  said.  “I’m  a
saleswoman.” Her diamonds sparkled, and her eyes glittered like a snake’s
—cold and dark. “Don’t worry. We’ll work our way down to the first floor,
eh?”

Leo nodded eagerly. “Sure, yeah! That sounds okay. Right, Piper?”
Piper did her best to stare daggers at him: No, it is not okay!
“Of course it’s okay.” Her Highness put her hands on Leo’s and Jason’s

shoulders and steered them toward the cosmetics. “Come along, boys.”

Piper didn’t have much choice except to follow.
She  hated  department  stores—mostly  because  she’d  gotten  caught
stealing  from  several  of  them.  Well,  not  exactly  caught,  and  not  exactly
stealing.  She’d  talked  salesmen  into  giving  her  computers,  new  boots,  a
gold  ring,  once  even  a  lawn  mower,  though  she  had  no  idea  why  she
wanted  one.  She  never  kept  the  stuff.  She  just  did  it  to  get  her  dad’s
attention.  Usually  she  talked  her  neighborhood  UPS  guy  into  taking  the
stuff  back.  But  of  course  the  salesmen  she  duped  always  came  to  their
senses and called the police, who eventually tracked her down.

Anyway,  she  wasn’t  thrilled  to  be  back  in  a  department  store—

especially one run by a crazy princess who glowed in the dark.

“And  here,”  the  princess  said,  “is  the  finest  assortment  of  magical

mixtures anywhere.”

The counter was crammed with bubbling beakers and smoking vials on
tripods. Lining the display shelves were crystal flasks—some shaped like
swans or honey bear dispensers. The liquids inside were every color, from
glowing white to polka-dotted. And the smells—ugh! Some were pleasant,
like fresh-baked cookies or roses, but they were mixed with the scents of
burning tires, skunk spray, and gym lockers.

The princess pointed to a bloodred vial—a simple test tube with a cork

stopper. “This one will heal any disease.”

“Even cancer?” Leo asked. “Leprosy? Hangnails?”
“Any disease, sweet boy. And this vial”—she pointed to a swan-shaped

container with blue liquid inside—“will kill you very painfully.”
“Awesome,” Jason said. His voice sounded dazed and sleepy.
“Jason,” Piper said. “We’ve got a job to do. Remember?” She tried to
put power into her words, to snap him out of his trance with charmspeak,
but her voice sounded shaky even to her. This princess woman scared her
too much, made her confidence crumble, just the way she’d felt back in the
Aphrodite cabin with Drew.

“Job to do,” Jason muttered. “Sure. But shopping first, okay?”
The princess beamed at him. “Then we have potions for resisting fire

—”

“Got that covered,” Leo said.
“Indeed?”  The  princess  studied  Leo’s  face  more  closely.  “You  don’t
appear  to  be  wearing  my  trademark  sunscreen  …but  no  matter.  We  also
have potions that cause blindness, insanity, sleep, or—”

“Wait.” Piper was still staring at the red vial. “Could that potion cure

lost memory?”

The princess narrowed her eyes. “Possibly. Yes. Quite  possibly. Why,

my dear? Have you forgotten something important?”

Piper  tried  to  keep  her  expression  neutral,  but  if  that  vial  could  cure

Jason’s memory …

Do I really want that? she wondered.

If Jason found out who he was, he might not even be her friend. Hera
had taken away his memories for a reason. She’d told him it was the only
way he’d survive at Camp Half-Blood. What if Jason found out that he was
their enemy, or something? He might come out of his amnesia and decide
he hated Piper. He might have a girlfriend wherever he came from.
It doesn’t matter, she decided, which kind of surprised her.
Jason always looked  so anguished  when  he tried  to  remember things.
Piper hated seeing him that way. She wanted to help him because she cared
about him, even if that meant losing him. And maybe it would make this
trip through Her Craziness’s department store worthwhile.

“How much?” Piper asked.
The princess got a faraway look in her eyes. “Well, now … The price is
always tricky. I love helping people. Honestly, I do. And I always keep my
bargains, but sometimes people try to cheat me.” Her gaze drifted to Jason.
“Once, for instance, I met a handsome young man who wanted a treasure
from my father’s kingdom. We made a bargain, and I promised to help him
steal it.”

“From your own dad?” Jason still looked half in a trance, but the idea

seemed to bother him.

“Oh,  don’t  worry,”  the  princess  said.  “I  demanded  a  high  price.  The
young  man  had  to  take  me  away  with  him.  He  was  quite  good-looking,
dashing,  strong  …”  She  looked  at  Piper.  “I’m  sure,  my  dear,  you
understand  how  one  might  be  attracted  to  such  a  hero,  and  want  to  help
him.”

Piper tried to control her emotions, but she probably blushed. She got

the creepiest feeling the princess could read her thoughts.

She also found the princess’s story disturbingly familiar. Pieces of old
myths  she’d  read  with  her  dad  started  coming  together,  but  this  woman
couldn’t be the one she was thinking of.

“At  any  rate,”  Her  Highness  continued,  “my  hero  had  to  do  many
impossible tasks, and I’m not bragging when I say he couldn’t have done
them without me. I betrayed my own family to win the hero his prize. And
still he cheated me of my payment.”

“Cheated?”  Jason  frowned,  as  if  trying  to  remember  something

important.

“That’s messed up,” Leo said.
Her Highness patted his cheek affectionately. “I’m sure you don’t need
to  worry,  Leo.  You  seem  honest.  You  would  always  pay  a  fair  price,
wouldn’t you?”

Leo nodded. “What were we buying again? I’ll take two.”
Piper broke in: “So, the vial, Your Highness—how much?”
The  princess  assessed  Piper’s  clothes,  her  face,  her  posture,  as  if

putting a price tag on one slightly used demigod.

“Would you give anything for it, my dear?” the princess asked. “I sense

that you would.”

The  words  washed  over  Piper  as  powerfully  as  a  good  surfing  wave.
The force of the suggestion nearly lifted her offher feet. She wanted to pay
any price. She wanted to say yes.

Then her stomach twisted. Piper realized she was being charmspoken.
She’d sensed something like it before, when Drew spoke at the campfire,
but  this  was  a  thousand  times  more  potent.  No  wonder  her  friends  were
dazed.  Was  this  was  what  people  felt  when  Piper  used  charmspeak?  A
feeling of guilt settled over her.

She summoned all her willpower. “No, I won’t pay any price. But a fair

price, maybe. After that, we need to leave. Right, guys?”

Just  for  a  moment,  her  words  seemed  to  have  some  effect.  The  boys

looked confused.

“Leave?” Jason said.
“You mean … after shopping?” Leo asked.
Piper  wanted  to  scream,  but  the  princess  tilted  her  head,  examining

Piper with newfound respect.

“Impressive,”  the  princess  said.  “Not  many  people  could  resist  my
suggestions.  Are  you  a  child  of  Aphrodite,  my  dear?  Ah,  yes—I  should
have seen it. No matter. Perhaps we should shop a while longer before you
decide what to buy, eh?”
“But the vial—”
“Now,  boys.”  She  turned  to  Jason  and  Leo.  Her  voice  was  so  much
more  powerful  than  Piper’s,  so  full  of  confidence,  Piper  didn’t  stand  a
chance. “Would you like to see more?”

“Sure,” Jason said.
“Okay,” Leo said.
“Excellent,” the princess said. “You’ll need all the help you can get if

you’re to make it to the Bay Area.”

Piper’s hand moved to her dagger. She thought about her dream of the
mountaintop—the  scene  Enceladus  had  shown  her,  a  place  she  knew,
where she was supposed to betray her friends in two days.
“The Bay Area?” Piper said. “Why the Bay Area?”
The princess smiled. “Well, that’s where they’ll die, isn’t it?”
Then  she  led  them  toward  the  escalators,  Jason  and  Leo  still  looking

excited to shop.

PIPER CORNERED THE PRINCESS as Jason and Leo went off to check out the
living fur coats.

“You want them shopping for their deaths?” Piper demanded.
“Mmm.” The princess blew dust off a display case of swords. “I’m a
seer, my dear. I know your little secret. But we don’t want to dwell on that,
do we? The boys are having such fun.”

Leo  laughed  as  he  tried  on  a  hat  that  seemed  to  be  made  from
enchanted  raccoon  fur.  Its  ringed  tail  twitched,  and  its  little  legs  wiggled
frantically  as  Leo  walked.  Jason  was  ogling  the  men’s  sportswear.  Boys
interested in shopping for clothes? A definite sign they were under an evil
spell.

Piper glared at the princess. “Who are you?”
“I told you, my dear. I’m the Princess of Colchis.”
“Where’s Colchis?”
The princess’s expression turned a little sad. “Where was Colchis, you
mean. My father ruled the far shores of the Black Sea, as far to the east as
a Greek ship could sail in those days. But Colchis is no more—lost eons
ago.”

“Eons?” Piper asked. The princess looked no more than fifty, but a bad
feeling started settling over Piper—something King Boreas had mentioned
back in Quebec. “How old are you?”

The  princess  laughed.  “A  lady  should  avoid  asking  or  answering  that
question. Let’s just say the, ah, immigration process to enter your country
took  quite  a  while.  My  patron  finally  brought  me  through.  She  made  all
this possible.” The princess swept her hand around the department store.

Piper’s mouth tasted like metal. “Your patron …”

“Oh,  yes.  She  doesn’t  bring  just  anyone  through,  mind  you—only
those  who  have  special  talents,  such  as  me.  And  really,  she  insists  on  so
little—a store entrance that must be underground so she can, ah, monitor
my clientele; and a favor now and then. In exchange for a new life? Really,
it was the best bargain I’d made in centuries.”

Run, Piper thought. We have to get out of here.
But before she could even turn her thoughts into words, Jason called,

“Hey, check it out!”

From a rack labeled distressed clothing, he held up a purple T-shirt like
the one he’d worn on the school field trip—except this shirt looked as if it
had been clawed by tigers.

Jason frowned. “Why does this look so familiar?”
“Jason, it’s like yours,” Piper said. “Now we really have to leave.” But
she  wasn’t  sure  he  could  even  hear  her  anymore  through  the  princess’s
enchantment.

“Nonsense,”  the  princess  said.  “The  boys  aren’t  done,  are  they?  And
yes,  my  dear.  Those  shirts  are  very  popular—tradeins  from  previous
customers. It suits you.”

Leo picked up an orange Camp Half-Blood tee with a hole through the
middle, as if it had been hit by a javelin. Next to that was a dented bronze
breastplate  pitted  with  corrosion—acid,  maybe?—and  a  Roman  toga
slashed to pieces and stained with something that looked disturbingly like
dried blood.

“Your Highness,” Piper said, trying to control her nerves. “Why don’t
you  tell  the  boys  how  you  betrayed  your  family?  I’m  sure  they’d  like  to
hear that story.”

Her words didn’t have any effect on the princess, but the boys turned,

suddenly interested.

“More story?” Leo asked.
“I like more story!” Jason agreed.
The princess flashed Piper  an irritated look.  “Oh,  one will do strange
things for love, Piper. You should know that. I fell for that young hero, in
fact, because your mother Aphrodite had me under a spell. If it wasn’t for
her—but I can’t hold a grudge against a goddess, can I?”

The princess’s tone made her meaning clear: I can take it out on you.

“But  that  hero  took  you  with  him  when  he  fled  Colchis,”  Piper
remembered.  “Didn’t  he,  Your  Highness?  He  married  you  just  as  he
promised.”

The look in the princess’s eyes made Piper want to apologize, but she

didn’t back down.

“At first,” Her Highness admitted, “it seemed he would keep his word.
But even after I helped him steal my father’s treasure, he still needed my
help. As we fled, my brother’s fleet came after us. His warships overtook
us.  He  would  have  destroyed  us,  but  I  convinced  my  brother  to  come
aboard our ship first and talk under a flag of truce. He trusted me.”

“And  you  killed  your  own  brother,”  Piper  said,  the  horrible  story  all
coming  back  to  her,  along  with  a  name—an  infamous  name  that  began
with the letter M.

“What?”  Jason  stirred.  For  a  moment  he  looked  almost  like  himself.

“Killed your own—”

“No,”  the  princess  snapped.  “Those  stories  are  lies.  It  was  my  new
husband  and  his  men  who  killed  my  brother,  though  they  couldn’t  have
done  it  without  my  deception.  They  threw  his  body  into  the  sea,  and  the
pursuing fleet had to stop and search for it so they could give my brother a
proper  burial.  This  gave  us  time  to  get  away.  All  this,  I  did  for  my
husband. And he forgot our bargain. He betrayed me in the end.”

Jason still looked uncomfortable. “What did he do?”
The  princess  held  the  sliced-up  toga  against  Jason’s  chest,  as  if
measuring him for an assassination. “Don’t you know the story, my boy?
You of all people should. You were named for him.”

“Jason,” Piper said. “The original Jason. But then you’re —you should

be dead!”

The princess smiled. “As I said, a new life in a new country. Certainly I
made mistakes. I turned my back on my own people. I was called a traitor,
a thief, a liar, a murderess. But I acted out of love.” She turned to the boys
and  gave  them  a  pitiful  look,  batting  her  eyelashes.  Piper  could  feel  the
sorcery washing over them, taking control more firmly than ever.

“Wouldn’t you do the same for someone you loved, my dears?”
“Oh, sure,” Jason said.
“Okay,” Leo said.

“Guys!” Piper ground her teeth in frustration. “Don’t you see who she

is? Don’t you—”

“Let’s  continue,  shall  we?”  the  princess  said  breezily.  “I  believe  you

wanted to talk about a price for the storm spirits—and your satyr.”

Leo got distracted on the second floor with the appliances.

“No way,” he said. “Is that an armored forge?”
Before Piper could stop him, he hopped off the escalator and ran over

to a big oval oven that looked like a barbecue on steroids.

When  they  caught  up  with  him,  the  princess  said,  “You  have  good
taste. This is the H-2000, designed by Hephaestus himself. Hot enough to
melt Celestial bronze or Imperial gold.”

Jason flinched as if he recognized that term. “Imperial gold?”
The  princess  nodded.  “Yes,  my  dear.  Like  that  weapon  so  cleverly
concealed in your pocket. To be properly forged, Imperial gold had to be
consecrated in the Temple of Jupiter on Capitoline Hill in Rome. Quite a
powerful  and rare  metal, but  like the  Roman  emperors,  quite volatile.  Be
sure never to break that blade…” She smiled pleasantly. “Rome was after
my time, of course, but I do hear stories. And now over here—this golden
throne is one of my finest luxury items.

Hephaestus made it as a punishment for his mother, Hera. Sit in it and

you’ll be immediately trapped.”

Leo apparently took this as an order. He began walking toward it in a

trance.

“Leo, don’t!” Piper warned.
He blinked. “How much for both?”
“Oh, the seat I could let you have for five great deeds. The forge, seven
years of servitude. And for only a bit of your strength—” She led Leo into
the appliance section, giving him prices on various items.

Piper  didn’t  want  to  leave  him  alone  with  her,  but  she  had  to  try
reasoning  with  Jason.  She  pulled  him  aside  and  slapped  him  across  the
face.

“Ow,” he muttered sleepily. “What was that for?”
“Snap out of it!” Piper hissed.
“What do you mean?”

“She’s charmspeaking you. Can’t you feel it?”
He knit his eyebrows. “She seems okay.”
“She’s  not  okay!  She  shouldn’t  even  be  alive!  She  was  married  to
Jason—the  other  Jason—three  thousand  years  ago.  Remember  what
Boreas  said—something  about  the  souls  no  longer  being  confined  to
Hades? It’s not just monsters who can’t stay dead. She’s come back from
the Underworld!”

Jason shook his head uneasily. “She’s not a ghost.”
“No, she’s worse! She’s—”
“Children.” The princess was back with Leo in tow. “If you please, we

will now see what you came for. That is what you want, yes?”

Piper  had  to  choke  back  a  scream.  She  was  tempted  to  pull  out  her
dagger and take on this witch herself, but she didn’t like her chances—not
in  the  middle  of  Her  Highness’s  department  store  while  her  friends  were
under a spell.  Piper  couldn’t even be sure  they’d  take  her side  in  a fight.
She had to figure out a better plan.

They took the escalator down to the base of the fountain. For the first
time,  Piper  noticed  two  large  bronze  sundials—each  about  the  size  of  a
trampoline—inlaid  on  the  marble  tile  floor  to  the  north  and  south  of  the
fountain. The gilded oversize canary cages stood to the east and west, and
the  farthest  one  held  the  storm  spirits.  They  were  so  densely  packed,
spinning around like a super-concentrated tornado, that Piper couldn’t tell
how many there were—dozens, at least.

“Hey,” Leo said, “Coach Hedge looks okay!”
They ran to the nearest canary cage. The old satyr seemed to have been
petrified  at  the  moment  he  was  sucked  into  the  sky  above  the  Grand
Canyon.  He  was  frozen  mid-shout,  his  club  raised  over  his  head  like  he
was ordering the gym class to drop and give him fifty. His curly hair stuck
up at  odd angles.  If  Piper  just concentrated on certain  details—the  bright
orange  polo  shirt,  the  wispy  goatee,  the  whistle  around  his  neck—she
could imagine Coach Hedge as his good old annoying self. But it was hard
to ignore the stubby horns on his head, and the fact that he had furry goat
legs and hooves instead of workout pants and Nikes.

“Yes,” the  princess said.  “I always keep my  wares  in  good  condition.
We can certainly barter for the storm spirits and the satyr. A package deal.

If we come to terms, I’ll even throw in the vial of healing potion, and you
can  go  in  peace.”  She  gave  Piper  a  shrewd  look.  “That’s  better  than
starting unpleasantness, isn’t it, dear?”

Don’t trust her, warned a voice in her head. If Piper was right about this
lady’s  identity,  nobody  would  be  leaving  in  peace.  A  fair  deal  wasn’t
possible.  It  was  all  a  trick.  But  her  friends  were  looking  at  her,  nodding
urgently and mouthing, Say yes! Piper needed more to time to think.

“We can negotiate,” she said.
“Totally!” Leo agreed. “Name your price.”
“Leo!” Piper snapped.
The princess chuckled. “Name my price? Perhaps not the best haggling
strategy,  my  boy,  but  at  least  you  know  a  thing’s  value.  Freedom  is  very
valuable indeed. You would ask me to release this satyr, who attacked my
storm winds—”

“Who attacked us,” Piper interjected.
Her Highness shrugged. “As I said, my patron asks me for small favors
from time to time. Sending the storm spirits to abduct you—that was one. I
assure you it was nothing personal. And no harm done, as you came here,
in the end, of your own free will! At any rate, you want the satyr freed, and
you want my storm spirits—who are very valuable servants, by the way—
so you can hand them over to that tyrant Aeolus. Doesn’t seem quite fair,
does it? The price will be high.”

Piper could see that her friends were ready to offer anything, promise

anything. Before they could speak, she played her last card.

“You’re  Medea,”  she  said.  “You  helped  the  original  Jason  steal  the
Golden  Fleece.  You’re  one  of  the  most  evil  villains  in  Greek  mythology.
Jason, Leo—don’t trust her.”

Piper put all the intensity she could gather into those words. She was
utterly  sincere,  and  it  seemed  to  have  some  effect.  Jason  stepped  away
from the sorceress.

Leo scratched his head and looked around like he was coming out of a

dream.

“What are we doing, again?”
“Boys!”  The  princess  spread  her  hands  in  a  welcoming  gesture.  Her
diamond jewelry glittered, and her painted fingers curled like blood-tipped

claws.  “It’s  true,  I’m  Medea.  But  I’m  so  misunderstood.  Oh,  Piper,  my
dear, you don’t know what it was like for women in the old days. We had
no power, no leverage. Often we couldn’t even choose our own husbands.
But I was  different.  I  chose  my  own  destiny  by  becoming  a  sorceress.  Is
that  so  wrong?  I  made  a  pact  with  Jason:  my  help  to  win  the  fleece,  in
exchange for his love. A fair deal. He became a famous hero! Without me,
he would’ve died unknown on the shores of Colchis.”

Jason—Piper’s  Jason—scowled.  “Then  …  you  really  did  die  three

thousand years ago? You came back from the Underworld?”

“Death no longer holds me, young hero,” Medea said. “Thanks to my

patron, I am flesh and blood again.”

“You … re-formed?” Leo blinked. “Like a monster?”
Medea spread her fingers, and steam hissed from her nails, like water
splashed  on  hot  iron.  “You  have  no  idea  what’s  happening,  do  you,  my
dears? It is so much worse than a stirring of monsters from Tartarus. My
patron knows that giants and monsters are not her greatest servants. I am
mortal.  I  learn  from  my  mistakes.  And  now  that  I  have  returned  to  the
living,  I  will  not  be  cheated  again.  Now,  here  is  my  price  for  what  you
ask.”

“Guys,”  Piper  said.  “The  original  Jason  left  Medea  because  she  was

crazy and bloodthirsty.”
“Lies!” Medea said.
“On  the  way  back  from  Colchis,  Jason’s  ship  landed  at  another
kingdom,  and  Jason  agreed  to  dump  Medea  and  marry  the  king’s
daughter.”

“After  I  bore  him  two  children!”  Medea  said.  “Still  he  broke  his

promise! I ask you, was that right?”

Jason and Leo dutifully shook their heads, but Piper wasn’t through.
“It  may  not  have  been  right,”  she  said,  “but  neither  was  Medea’s
revenge.  She  murdered  her  own  children  to  get  back  at  Jason.  She
poisoned his new wife and fled the kingdom.”

Medea snarled. “An invention to ruin my reputation! The people of the
Corinth—that  unruly  mob—killed  my  children  and  drove  me  out.  Jason
did nothing to protect me. He robbed me of everything. So yes, I sneaked

back into the palace and poisoned his lovely new bride. It was only fair—a
suitable price.”

“You’re insane,” Piper said.
“I  am  the  victim!”  Medea  wailed.  “I  died  with  my  dreams  shattered,
but no longer. I know now not to trust heroes. When they come asking for
treasures, they will pay a heavy price. Especially when the one asking has
the name of Jason!”

The  fountain  turned  bright  red.  Piper  drew  her  dagger,  but  her  hand
was  shaking  almost  too  badly  to  hold  it.  “Jason,  Leo—it’s  time  to  go.
Now.”

“Before  you’ve closed  the  deal?” Medea  asked. “What  of your quest,
boys? And my price is so easy. Did you know this fountain is magic? If a
dead man were to be thrown into it, even if he was chopped to pieces, he
would pop back out fully formed—stronger and more powerful than ever.”

“Seriously?” Leo asked.
“Leo,  she’s  lying,”  Piper  said.  “She  did  that  trick  with  somebody
before—a king, I think. She convinced his daughters to cut him to pieces
so  he  could  come  out  of  the  water  young  and  healthy  again,  but  it  just
killed him!”

“Ridiculous,” Medea said, and Piper could hear the power charged in
every  syllable.  “Leo,  Jason—my  price  is  so  simple.  Why  don’t  you  two
fight? If you get injured, or even killed, no problem. We’ll just throw you
into the fountain and you’ll be better than ever. You do want to fight, don’t
you? You resent each other!”

“Guys, no!” Piper said. But they were already glaring at each other, as

if it was just dawning on them how they really felt.

Piper  had  never  felt  more  helpless.  Now  she  understood  what  real
sorcery  looked  like.  She’d  always  thought  magic  meant  wands  and
fireballs,  but  this  was  worse.  Medea  didn’t  just  rely  on  poisons  and
potions. Her most potent weapon was her voice.

Leo scowled. “Jason’s always the star. He always gets the attention and

takes me for granted.”

“You’re  annoying,  Leo,”  Jason  said.  “You  never  take  anything

seriously. You can’t even fix a dragon.”

“Stop!” Piper pleaded, but both drew weapons—Jason his gold sword,

and Leo a hammer from his tool belt.

“Let  them  go,  Piper,”  Medea  urged.  “I’m  doing  you  a  favor.  Let  it
happen now, and it will make your choice so much easier. Enceladus will
be pleased. You could have your father back today!”

Medea’s  charmspeak  didn’t  work  on  her,  but  the  sorceress  still  had  a
persuasive voice. Her father back today? Despite her best intentions, Piper
wanted that. She wanted her father back so much, it hurt.

“You work for Enceladus,” she said.
Medea laughed. “Serve a giant? No. But we all serve the same greater
cause—a  patron  you  cannot  begin  to  challenge.  Walk  away,  child  of
Aphrodite.  This  does  not  have  to  be  your  death,  too.  Save  yourself,  and
your father can go free.”

Leo  and  Jason  were  still  facing  off,  ready  to  fight,  but  they  looked
unsteady and confused—waiting for another order. Part of them had to be
resisting, Piper hoped. This went completely against their nature.

“Listen  to  me,  girl.”  Medea  plucked  a  diamond  off  her  bracelet  and
threw it into a spray of water from the fountain. As it passed through the
multicolored light, Medea said, “O Iris, goddess of the rainbow, show me
the office of Tristan McLean.”

The mist  shimmered,  and Piper  saw  her father’s study.  Sitting behind
his  desk,  talking  on  the  phone,  was  her  dad’s  assistant,  Jane,  in  her  dark
business suit, her hair swirled in a tight bun.

“Hello, Jane,” Medea said.
Jane hung up the phone calmly. “How can I help you, ma’am? Hello,

Piper.”

“You—” Piper was so angry she could hardly talk.
“Yes,  child,”  Medea  said.  “Your  father’s  assistant.  Quite  easy  to

manipulate. An organized mind for a mortal, but incredibly weak.”

“Thank you, ma’am,” Jane said.
“Don’t  mention  it,”  Medea  said.  “I  just  wanted  to  congratulate  you,
Jane.  Getting  Mr.  McLean  to  leave  town  so  suddenly,  take  his  jet  to
Oakland without alerting the press or the police—well done! No one seems
to  know  where  he’s  gone.  And  telling  him  his  daughter’s  life  was  on  the
line—that was a nice touch to get his cooperation.”

“Yes,”  Jane  agreed  in  a  bland  tone,  as  if  she  were  sleepwalking.  “He

was quite cooperative when he believed Piper was in danger.”

Piper looked down at her dagger. The blade trembled in her hand. She
couldn’t use it for a weapon any better than Helen of Troy could, but it was
still  a  looking  glass,  and  what  she  saw  in  it  was  a  scared  girl  with  no
chance of winning.

“I  may  have  new  orders  for  you,  Jane,”  Medea  said.  “If  the  girl
cooperates,  it  may  be  time  for  Mr.  McLean  to  come  home.  Would  you
arrange a suitable cover story for his absence, just in case? And I imagine
the poor man will need some time in a psychiatric hospital.”

“Yes, ma’am. I will stand by.”
The image faded, and Medea turned to Piper. “There, you see?”
“You lured my dad into a trap,” Piper said. “You helped the giant—”
“Oh, please, dear. You’ll work yourself into a fit! I’ve been preparing
for this war for years, even before I was brought back to life. I’m a seer, as
I  said.  I  can  tell  the  future  as  well  as  your  little  oracle.  Years  ago,  still
suffering in the Fields of Punishment, I had a vision of the seven in your
so-called  Great  Prophecy.  I  saw  your  friend  Leo  here,  and  saw  that  he
would be an important enemy someday. I stirred the consciousness of my
patron, gave her this information, and she managed to wake just a little—
just enough to visit him.”

“Leo’s  mother,”  Piper  said.  “Leo,  listen  to  this!  She  helped  get  your

mother killed!”

“Uh-huh,” Leo mumbled, in a daze. He frowned at his hammer. “So …

I just attack Jason? That’s okay?”

“Perfectly safe,” Medea promised. “And Jason, strike him hard. Show

me you are worthy of your namesake.”

“No!”  Piper  ordered.  She knew  it was  her last  chance.  “Jason,  Leo—

she’s tricking you. Put down your weapons.”

The sorceress rolled her eyes. “Please, girl. You’re no match for me. I
trained  with  my  aunt,  the  immortal  Circe.  I  can  drive  men  mad  or  heal
them with my voice. What hope do these puny young heroes have against
me? Now, boys, kill each other!”

“Jason, Leo, listen to me.” Piper put all of her emotion into her voice.
For years she’d been trying to control herself and not show weakness, but

now she poured everything into her words—her fear, her desperation, her
anger.  She  knew  she  might  be  signing  her  dad’s  death  warrant,  but  she
cared  too  much  about  her  friends  to  let  them  hurt  each  other.  “Medea  is
charming you. It’s part of her magic. You are best friends. Don’t fight each
other. Fight her!”

They hesitated, and Piper could feel the spell shatter.
Jason blinked. “Leo, was I just about to stab you?”
“Something about my mother … ?” Leo frowned, then turned toward
Medea.  “You  …  you’re  working  for  Dirt  Woman.  You  sent  her  to  the
machine shop.” He lifted his arm. “Lady, I got a three-pound hammer with
your name on it.”

“Bah!” Medea sneered. “I’ll simply collect payment another way.”
She  pressed  one  of  the  mosaic  tiles  on  the  floor,  and  the  building
rumbled.  Jason swung  his  sword  at  Medea,  but  she dissolved  into smoke
and reappeared at the base of the escalator.

“You’re  slow,  hero!”  She  laughed.  “Take  your  frustration  out  on  my

pets!”

Before Jason could go after her, the giant bronze sundials at either end
of  the  fountain  swung  open.  Two  snarling  gold  beasts—flesh-and-blood
winged dragons—crawled out from the pits below. Each was the size of a
camper van, maybe not large compared to Festus, but large enough.

“So that’s what’s in the kennels,” Leo said meekly.
The  dragons  spread  their  wings  and  hissed.  Piper  could  feel  the  heat

coming off their glittering skin. One turned his angry orange eyes on her.
“Don’t look them in the eye!” Jason warned. “They’ll paralyze you.”
“Indeed!” Medea was leisurely riding the escalator up, leaning against
the handrail as she watched the fun. “These two dears have been with me a
long  time—sun  dragons,  you  know,  gifts  from  my  grandfather  Helios.
They  pulled  my  chariot  when  I  left  Corinth,  and  now  they  will  be  your
destruction. Ta-ta!”

The  dragons  lunged.  Leo  and  Jason  charged  to  intercept.  Piper  was
amazed  how  fearlessly  the  boys  attacked—working  like  a  team  who  had
trained together for years.

Medea was almost to the second floor, where she’d be able to choose

from a wide assortment of deadly appliances.

“Oh, no, you don’t,” Piper growled, and took off after her.
When  Medea  spotted  Piper,  she  started  climbing  in  earnest.  She  was
quick  for  a  three-thousand-year-old  lady.  Piper  climbed  at  top  speed,
taking  the  steps  three  at  a  time,  and  still  she  couldn’t  catch  her.  Medea
didn’t  stop  at  floor  two.  She  hopped  the  next  escalator  and  continued  to
ascend.

The potions, Piper thought. Of course that’s what she would go for. She

was famous for potions.

Down below, Piper heard the battle raging. Leo was blowing his safety
whistle, and Jason was yelling to keep the dragons’ attention. Piper didn’t
dare look—not while she was running with a dagger in her hand. She could
just  see  herself  tripping  and  stabbing  herself  in  the  nose.  That  would  be
super heroic.

She  grabbed  a  shield  from  an  armored  manikin  on  floor  three  and
continued  to  climb.  She  imagined  Coach  Hedge  yelling  in  her  mind,  just
like  back  in  gym  class  at  Wilderness  School:  Move  it,  McLean!  You  call
that escalator-climbing?

She reached the top floor, breathing hard, but she was too late. Medea

had reached the potions counter.

The  sorceress  grabbed  a  swan-shaped  vial—the  blue  one  that  caused
painful death—and Piper did the only thing that came to mind. She threw
her shield.

Medea turned triumphantly just in time to get hit in the chest by a fifty-
pound  metal  Frisbee.  She  stumbled  backward,  crashing  over  the  counter,
breaking vials and knocking down shelves. When the sorceress stood from
the wreckage, her dress was stained a dozen different colors. Many of the
stains were smoldering and glowing.

“Fool!” Medea wailed. “Do you have any idea what so many potions

will do when mixed?”

“Kill you?” Piper said hopefully.
The carpet began to steam around Medea’s feet. She coughed, and her

face contorted in pain—or was she faking?
Below, Leo called, “Jason, help!”
Piper  risked  a  quick  look,  and  almost  sobbed  in  despair.  One  of  the
dragons had Leo pinned to the floor. It was baring its fangs, ready to snap.

Jason was all the way across the room battling the other dragon, much too
far away to assist.

“You’ve doomed  us all!”  Medea  screamed.  Smoke  was  rolling across
the  carpet  as  the  stain  spread,  throwing  sparks  and  setting  fires  in  the
clothing  racks.  “You  have  only  seconds  before  this  concoction  consumes
everything and destroys the building. There’s no time—”

CRASH! The stained glass ceiling splintered in a rain of multicolored

shards, and Festus the bronze dragon dropped into the department store.

He hurtled into the fray, snatching up a sun dragon in each claw. Only

now did Piper appreciate just how big and strong their metal friend was.

“That’s my boy!” Leo yelled.
Festus flew halfway up the atrium, then hurled the sun dragons into the
pits  they’d  come  from.  Leo  raced  to  the  fountain  and  pressed  the  marble
tile,  closing  the  sundials.  They  shuddered  as  the  dragons  banged  against
them, trying to get out, but for the moment they were contained.

Medea cursed in some ancient language. The whole fourth floor was on
fire now. The  air  filled with  noxious  gas. Even with  the  roof  open, Piper
could feel the heat intensifying. She backed up to the edge of the railing,
keeping her dagger pointed toward Medea.

“I will not be abandoned again!” The sorceress knelt and snatched up
the red healing potion, which had somehow survived the crash. “You want
your boyfriend’s memory restored? Take me with you!”

Piper glanced behind her. Leo and Jason were on board Festus’s back.
The bronze dragon flapped his mighty wings, snatched the two cages with
the satyr and the storm spirits in his claws, and began to ascend.

The building rumbled. Fire and the smoke curled up the walls, melting

the railings, turning the air to acid.

“You’ll never survive your quest without me!” Medea growled. “Your
boy hero will stay ignorant forever, and your father will die. Take me with
you!”

For  one  heartbeat,  Piper  was  tempted.  Then  she  saw  Medea’s  grim
smile. The sorceress was confident in her powers of persuasion, confident
that she could always make a deal, always escape and win in the end.

“Not  today,  witch.”  Piper  jumped  over  the  side.  She  plummeted  for
only  a  second  before  Leo  and  Jason  caught  her,  hauling  her  aboard  the

dragon.

She heard Medea screaming in rage as they soared through the broken
roof  and  over  downtown  Chicago.  Then  the  department  store  exploded
behind them.

LEO  KEPT  LOOKING  BACK.  HE  HALF  EXPECTED  to  see  those  nasty  sun
dragons  toting  a  flying  chariot  with  a  screaming  magical  saleswoman
throwing potions, but nothing followed them.

He  steered  the  dragon  toward  the  southwest.  Eventually,  the  smoke
from  the  burning  department  store  faded  in  the  distance,  but  Leo  didn’t
relax until the suburbs of Chicago gave way to snowy fields, and the sun
began to set.

“Good  job,  Festus.”  He  patted  the  dragon’s  metal  hide.  “You  did

awesome.”

The dragon shuddered. Gears popped and clicked in his neck.
Leo frowned. He didn’t like those noises. If the control disk was failing

again—No, hopefully it was something minor. Something he could fix.

“I’ll  give  you  a  tune-up  next  time  we  land,”  Leo  promised.  “You’ve

earned some motor oil and Tabasco sauce.”

Festus  whirled  his  teeth,  but  even  that  sounded  weak.  He  flew  at  a
steady pace, his great wings angling to catch the wind, but he was carrying
a heavy load. Two cages in his claws plus three people on his back—the
more Leo thought about it, the more worried he got. Even metal dragons
had limits.

“Leo.” Piper patted his shoulder. “You feeling okay?”
“Yeah … not bad for a brainwashed zombie.” He hoped he didn’t look
as embarrassed as he felt. “Thanks for saving us back there, beauty queen.
If you hadn’t talked me out of that spell—”
“Don’t worry about it,” Piper said.
But Leo worried a lot. He felt terrible about how easily Medea had set
him against his best friend. And those feelings hadn’t come from nowhere
—his  resentment  of  the  way  Jason  always  got  the  spotlight  and  didn’t

really  seem  to  need  him.  Leo  did  feel  that  way  sometimes,  even  if  he
wasn’t proud of it.

What  bothered  him  more  was  the  news  about  his  mom.  Medea  had
seen  the  future  down  in  the  Underworld.  That  was  how  her  patron,  the
woman  in  the  black  earthen  robes,  had  come  to  the  machine  shop  seven
years  ago  to  scare  him,  ruin  his  life.  That’s  how  his  mother  had  died—
because of something Leo might do someday. So in a weird way, even if
his fire powers weren’t to blame, Mom’s death was still his fault.

When they had left Medea in that exploding store, Leo had felt a little
too good. He hoped she wouldn’t make it out, and would go right back to
the Fields of Punishment, where she belonged. Those feelings didn’t make
him proud, either.

And if souls were coming back from the Underworld …was it possible

Leo’s mom could be brought back?

He tried to put the idea aside. That was Frankenstein thinking. It wasn’t
natural. It wasn’t right. Medea might’ve been brought back to life, but she
hadn’t  seemed  quite  human,  with  the  hissing  nails  and  the  glowing  head
and whatnot.

No,  Leo’s  mom  had  passed  on.  Thinking  any  other  way  would  just
drive  Leo  nuts.  Still,  the  thought  kept  poking  at  him,  like  an  echo  of
Medea’s voice.

“We’re  going  to  have  to  put  down  soon,”  he  warned  his  friends.
“Couple  more  hours,  maybe,  to  make  sure  Medea’s  not  following  us.  I
don’t think Festus can fly much longer than that.”

“Yeah,” Piper agreed. “Coach Hedge probably wants to get out of his

canary cage, too. Question is—where are we going?”

“The  Bay  Area,”  Leo  guessed.  His  memories  of  the  department  store
were  fuzzy,  but  he  seemed  to  remember  hearing  that.  “Didn’t  Medea  say
something about Oakland?”

Piper didn’t respond for so long, Leo wondered if he’d said something

wrong.

“Piper’s dad,” Jason put in. “Something’s happened to your dad, right?

He got lured into some kind of trap.”

Piper let out a shaky breath. “Look, Medea said you would both die in
the Bay Area. And besides … even if we went there, the Bay Area is huge!

First  we  need  to  find  Aeolus  and  drop  off  the  storm  spirits.  Boreas  said
Aeolus was the only one who could tell us exactly where to go.”

Leo grunted. “So how do we find Aeolus?”
Jason leaned forward. “You mean you don’t see it?” He pointed ahead
of them, but Leo didn’t see anything except clouds and the lights of a few
towns glowing in the dusk.

“What?” Leo asked. “That … whatever it is,” Jason said. “In the air.”
Leo glanced back. Piper looked just as confused as he was.
“Right,” Leo said. “Could you be more specific on the ‘whatever-it-is’

part?”

“Like a vapor trail,” Jason said. “Except it’s glowing. Really faint, but
it’s  definitely  there.  We’ve  been  following  it  since  Chicago,  so  I  figured
you saw it.”

Leo  shook  his  head.  “Maybe  Festus  can  sense  it.  You  think  Aeolus

made it?”

“Well, it’s a magic trail in the wind,” Jason said. “Aeolus is the wind
god. I think he knows we’ve got prisoners for him. He’s telling us where to
fly.”

“Or it’s another trap,” Piper said.
Her  tone  worried  Leo.  She  didn’t  just  sound  nervous.  She  sounded
broken  with  despair,  like  they’d  already  sealed  their  fate,  and  like  it  was
her fault.

“Pipes, you all right?” he asked.
“Don’t call me that.”
“Okay, fine. You don’t like any of the names I make up for you. But if

your dad’s in trouble and we can help—”

“You  can’t,”  she  said,  her  voice  getting  shakier.  “Look,  I’m  tired.  If

you don’t mind …”

She leaned back against Jason and closed her eyes.
All right, Leo thought—pretty clear signal she didn’t want to talk.
They flew in silence for a while. Festus seemed to know where he was
going.  He  kept  his  course,  gently  curving  toward  the  southwest  and
hopefully Aeolus’s fortress. Another wind god to visit, a whole new flavor
of crazy—Oh, boy, Leo couldn’t wait.

He  had  way  too  much  on  his  mind  to  sleep,  but  now  that  he  was  out
danger,  his  body  had  different  ideas.  His  energy  level  was  crashing.  The
monotonous beat of the dragon’s wings made his eyes feel heavy. His head
started to nod.

“Catch a few Z’s,” Jason said. “It’s cool. Hand me the reins.”
“Nah, I’m okay—”
“Leo,”  Jason  said,  “you’re  not  a  machine.  Besides,  I’m  the  only  one

who can see the vapor trail. I’ll make sure we stay on course.”

Leo’s eyes started to close on their own. “All right. Maybe just …”
He  didn’t  finish  the  sentence  before  slumping  forward  against  the

dragon’s warm neck.

In his dream, he heard a voice full of static, like a bad AM radio: “Hello?
Is this thing working?”

Leo’s vision came into focus—sort of. Everything was hazy and gray,
with  bands  of  interference  running  across  his  sight.  He’d  never  dreamed
with a bad connection before.

He seemed to be in a workshop. Out of the corners of his eyes he saw
bench  saws,  metal  lathes,  and  tool  cages.  A  forge  glowed  cheerfully
against one wall.

It wasn’t the camp forge—too big. Not Bunker 9—much warmer and

more comfortable, obviously not abandoned.

Then  Leo  realized  something  was  blocking  the  middle  of  his  view—
something large and fuzzy, and so close, Leo had to cross his eyes to see it
properly. It was a large ugly face.
“Holy mother!” he yelped.
The face backed away and came into focus. Staring down at him was a
bearded  man  in  grimy  blue  coveralls.  His  face  was  lumpy  and  covered
with  welts,  as  if  he’d  been  bitten  by  a  million  bees,  or  dragged  across
gravel. Possibly both.

“Humph,” the man said. “Holy father, boy. I should think you’d know

the difference.”

Leo blinked. “Hephaestus?”
Being  in  the  presence  of  his  father  for  the  first  time,  Leo  probably
should’ve been speechless or awestruck or something. But after what he’d

been through the last couple of days, with Cyclopes and a sorceress and a
face in the potty sludge, all Leo felt was a surge of complete annoyance.

“Now  you  show  up?”  he  demanded.  “After  fifteen  years?  Great
parenting, Fur Face. Where do you get off sticking your ugly nose into my
dreams?”

The god raised an eyebrow. A little spark caught fire in his beard. Then
he  threw  back  his  head  and  laughed  so  loudly,  the  tools  rattled  on  the
workbenches.

“You  sound  just  like  your  mother,”  Hephaestus  said.  “I  miss

Esperanza.”

“She’s been dead seven years.” Leo’s voice trembled. “Not that you’d

care.”

“But I do care, boy. About both of you.”
“Uh-huh. Which is why I never saw you before today.”
The  god  made  a  rumbling  sound  in  his  throat,  but  he  looked  more
uncomfortable  than  angry.  He  pulled  a  miniature  motor  from  his  pocket
and began fiddling absently with the pistons—just the way Leo did when
he was nervous.

“I’m not good with children,” the god confessed. “Or people. Well, any
organic life forms, really. I thought about speaking to you at your mom’s
funeral.  Then  again  when  you  were  in  fifth  grade  …  that  science  project
you made, steam-powered chicken chucker. Very impressive.”

“You saw that?”
Hephaestus  pointed  to  the  nearest  worktable,  where  a  shiny  bronze

mirror showed a hazy image of Leo asleep on the dragon’s back.

“Is  that  me?”  Leo  asked.  “Like—me  right  now,  having  this  dream—

looking at me having a dream?”

Hephaestus scratched his beard. “Now you’ve confused me. But yes—
it’s you. I’m always keeping an eye on you, Leo. But talking to you is, um
… different.”

“You’re scared,” Leo said.
“Grommets and gears!” the god yelled. “Of course not!”
“Yeah, you’re scared.” But Leo’s anger seeped away. He’d spent years
thinking about what he’d say to his dad if they ever met—how Leo would
chew  him  out  for  being  a  deadbeat.  Now,  looking  at  that  bronze  mirror,

Leo thought about his dad watching his progress over the years, even his
stupid science experiments.

Maybe Hephaestus was still a jerk, but Leo kind of understood where
he  was  coming  from.  Leo  knew  about  running  away  from  people,  not
fitting  in.  He  knew  about  hiding  out  in  a  workshop  rather  than  trying  to
deal with organic life forms.

“So,”  Leo  grumbled,  “you  keep  track  of  all  your  kids?  You  got  like
twelve  back  at  camp.  How’d  you  even—Never  mind.  I  don’t  want  to
know.”

Hephaestus  might’ve  blushed,  but  his  face  was  so  beat  up  and  red,  it
was  hard  to  tell.  “Gods  are  different  from  mortals,  boy.  We  can  exist  in
many places at once—wherever people call on us, wherever our sphere of
influence  is  strong.  In fact, it’s rare  our entire  essence  is  ever  together  in
one place—our true form. It’s dangerous, powerful enough to destroy any
mortal  who  looks  upon  us.  So,  yes  …  lots  of  children.  Add  to  that  our
different  aspects,  Greek  and  Roman—”  The  god’s  fingers  froze  on  his
engine project. “Er, that is to say, being a god is complicated. And yes, I
try to keep an eye on all my children, but you especially.”

Leo was pretty sure Hephaestus had almost slipped and said something

important, but he wasn’t sure what.

“Why  contact  me  now?”  Leo  asked.  “I  thought  the  gods  had  gone

silent.”

“We  have,”  Hephaestus  grumped.  “Zeus’s  orders—very  strange,  even
for  him.  He’s  blocked  all  visions,  dreams,  and  Iris-messages  to  and  from
Olympus. Hermes is sitting around bored out of his mind because he can’t
the  mail.  Fortunately,  I  kept  my  old  pirate  broadcasting
deliver 
equipment.”

Hephaestus patted a machine on the table. It looked like a combination
satellite  dish,  V-6  engine,  and  espresso  maker.  Each  time  Hephaestus
jostled the machine, Leo’s dream flickered and changed color.

“Used  this  in  the  Cold  War,”  the  god  said  fondly.  “Radio  Free
Hephaestus.  Those  were  the  days.  I  keep  it  around  for  pay-for-view,
mostly, or making viral brain videos—”

“Viral brain videos?”

“But now it’s come in handy again. If Zeus knew I was contacting you,

he’d have my hide.”

“Why is Zeus being such a jerk?”
“Hrumph. He excels at that, boy.” Hephaestus called him boy as if Leo
were an annoying machine part—an extra washer, maybe, that had no clear
purpose, but that Hephaestus didn’t want to throw away for fear he might
need it someday.

Not exactly  heartwarming. Then  again,  Leo  wasn’t sure  he wanted to
be  called  “son.”  Leo  wasn’t  about  to  start  calling  this  big  awkward  ugly
guy “Dad.”

Hephaestus  got  tired  of  his  engine  and  tossed  it  over  his  shoulder.
Before  it  could  hit  the  floor,  it  sprouted  helicopter  wings  and  flew  itself
into a recycling bin.

“It  was  the  second  Titan  War,  I  suppose,”  Hephaestus  said.  “That’s
what  got  Zeus  upset.  We  gods  were  …  well,  embarrassed.  Don’t  think
there’s any other way to say it.”
“But you won,” Leo said.
The  god  grunted.  “We  won  because  the  demigods  of”—again  he
hesitated,  as  if  he’d  almost  made  a  slip—“of  Camp  Half-Blood  took  the
lead. We won because our children fought our battles for us, smarter than
we  did.  If  we’d  relied  on  Zeus’s  plan,  we  would’ve  all  gone  down  to
Tartarus fighting the storm giant Typhon, and Kronos would’ve won. Bad
enough  mortals  won  our  war  for  us,  but  then  that  young  upstart,  Percy
Jackson—”

“The guy who’s missing.”
“Hmph.  Yes.  Him.  He  had  the  nerve  to  turn  down  our  offer  of
immortality  and  tell  us  to  pay  better  attention  to  our  children.  Er,  no
offense.”

“Oh, how could I take offense? Please, go on ignoring me.”
“Mighty  understanding  of  you  …”  Hephaestus  frowned,  then  sighed
wearily.  “That  was  sarcasm,  wasn’t  it?  Machines  don’t  have  sarcasm,
usually. But as I was saying, the gods felt ashamed, shown up by mortals.
At first, of course, we were grateful. But after a few months, those feelings
turned bitter. We’re gods, after all. We need to be admired, looked up to,
held in awe and admiration.”

“Even if you’re wrong?”
“Especially  then!  And  to  have  Jackson  refuse  our  gift,  as  if  being
mortal were somehow better than being a god... well, that stuck in Zeus’s
craw. He decided it was high time we got back to traditional values. Gods
were  to  be  respected.  Our  children  were  to  be  seen  and  not  visited.
Olympus  was  closed.  At  least  that  was  part  of  his  reasoning.  And,  of
course, we started hearing of bad things stirring under the earth.”

“The giants, you mean. Monsters re-forming instantly. The dead rising

again. Little stuff like that?”

“Aye,  boy.”  Hephaestus  turned  a  knob  on  his  pirate  broadcasting
machine. Leo’s dream sharpened to full color, but the god’s face was such
a riot of red welts and yellow and black bruises, Leo wished it would go
back to black and white.

“Zeus thinks he can reverse the tide,” the god said, “lull the earth back
to  sleep  as  long  as  we  stay  quiet.  None  of  us  really  believes  that.  And  I
don’t  mind  saying,  we’re  in  no  shape  to  fight  another  war.  We  barely
survived the Titans. If we’re repeating the old pattern, what comes next is
even worse.”

“The  giants,”  Leo  said.  “Hera  said  demigods  and  gods  had  to  join

forces to defeat them. Is that true?”

“Mmm. I hate to agree with my mother about anything, but yes. Those

giants are tough to kill, boy. They’re a different breed.”
“Breed? You make them sound like racehorses.”
“Ha!” the god said. “More like war dogs. Back in the beginning, y’see,
everything  in  creation  came  from  the  same  parents—Gaea  and  Ouranos,
Earth and Sky. They had their different batches of children—your Titans,
your  Elder  Cyclopes,  and  so  forth.  Then  Kronos,  the  head  Titan—well,
you’ve  probably  heard  how  he  chopped  up  his  father  Ouranos  with  a
scythe and took over the world. Then we gods came along, children of the
Titans, and defeated them. But that wasn’t the end of it. The earth bore a
new batch of children, except they were sired by Tartarus, the spirit of the
eternal  abyss—the  darkest,  most  evil  place  in  the  Underworld.  Those
children, the giants, were bred for one purpose—revenge on us for the fall
of  the  Titans.  They  rose  up  to  destroy  Olympus,  and  they  came  awfully
close.”

Hephaestus’s  beard  began  to  smolder.  He  absently  swatted  out  the
flames.  “What  my  blasted  mother  Hera  is  doing  now—she’s  a  meddling
fool  playing  a  dangerous  game,  but  she’s  right  about  one  thing:  you
demigods have to unite. That’s the only way to open Zeus’s eyes, convince
the  Olympians  they  must  accept  your  help.  And  that’s  the  only  way  to
defeat what’s coming. You’re a big part of that, Leo. ”

The  god’s  gaze  seemed  far  away.  Leo  wondered  if  really  could  split
himself  into  different  parts—where  else  was  he  right  now?  Maybe  his
Greek side was fixing a car or going on a date, while his Roman side was
watching  a  ball  game  and  ordering  pizza.  Leo  tried  to  imagine  what  it
would  feel  like  to  have  multiple  personalities.  He  hoped  it  wasn’t
hereditary.

“Why me?” he asked, and as soon as he said it, more questions flooded
out.  “Why  claim  me  now?  Why  not  when  I  was  thirteen,  like  you’re
supposed to? Or you could’ve claimed me at seven, before my mom died!
Why didn’t you find me earlier? Why didn’t you warn me about this?”

Leo’s hand burst into flames.
Hephaestus  regarded  him  sadly.  “Hardest  part,  boy.  Letting  my
children  walk  their  own  paths.  Interfering  doesn’t  work.  The  Fates  make
sure of that. As for the claiming, you were a special case, boy. The timing
had to be right. I can’t explain it much more, but—”

Leo’s  dream  went  fuzzy.  Just  for  a  moment,  it  turned  into  a  rerun  of

Wheel of Fortune. Then Hephaestus came back into focus.

“Blast,”  he  said.  “I  can’t  talk  much  longer.  Zeus  is  sensing  an  illegal
dream.  He  is  lord  of  the  air,  after  all,  including  the  airwaves.  Just  listen,
boy: you have a role to play. Your friend Jason is right—fire is a gift, not a
curse.  I  don’t  give  that  blessing  to  just  anyone.  They’ll  never  defeat  the
giants  without  you,  much  less  the  mistress  they  serve.  She’s  worse  than
any god or Titan.”

“Who?” Leo demanded.
Hephaestus frowned, his image becoming fuzzier. “I told you. Yes, I’m
pretty sure I told you. Just be warned: along the way, you’re going to lose
some friends and some valuable tools.

But that isn’t your fault, Leo. Nothing lasts forever, not even the best

machines. And everything can be reused.”

“What do you mean? I don’t like the sound of that.”
“No, you shouldn’t.” Hephaestus’s image was barely visible now, just a

blob in the static. “Just watch out for—”

Leo’s  dream  switched  to  Wheel  of  Fortune  just  as  the  wheel  hit

Bankrupt and the audience said, “Awwww!”

Then Leo snapped awake to Jason and Piper screaming.

THEY  SPIRALED  THROUGH  THE  DARK  in  a  free  fall,  still  on  the  dragon’s
back, but Festus’s hide was cold. His ruby eyes were dim.
“Not again!” Leo yelled. “You can’t fall again!”
He could barely hold on. The wind stung his eyes, but he managed to
pull  open  the  panel  on  the  dragon’s  neck.  He  toggled  the  switches.  He
tugged the wires. The dragon’s wings flapped once, but Leo caught a whiff
of  burning  bronze.  The  drive  system  was  overloaded.  Festus  didn’t  have
the strength to keep flying, and Leo couldn’t get to the main control panel
on  the  dragon’s  head—not  in  midair.  He  saw  the  lights  of  a  city  below
them—just flashes in the dark as they plummeted in circles. They had only
seconds before they crashed.

“Jason!” he screamed. “Take Piper and fly out of here!”
“What?”
“We need to lighten the load! I might be able to reboot Festus, but he’s

carrying too much weight!”

“What about you?” Piper cried. “If you can’t reboot him—”
“I’ll be fine,” Leo yelled. “Just follow me to the ground. Go!”
Jason  grabbed  Piper  around  the  waist.  They  both  unbuckled  their

harnesses, and in a flash they were gone—shooting into the air.

“Now,” Leo said. “Just you and me, Festus—and two heavy cages. You

can do it, boy!”

Leo talked to the dragon while he worked, falling at terminal velocity.
He  could  see  the  city  lights  below  him,  getting  closer  and  closer.  He
summoned  fire  in  his  hand  so  he  could  see  what  he  was  doing,  but  the
wind kept extinguishing it.

He pulled a wire that he thought connected the dragon’s nerve center to

its head, hoping for a little wake-up jolt.

Festus  groaned—metal  creaking  inside  his  neck.  His  eyes  flickered
weakly to life, and he spread his wings. Their fall turned into a steep glide.

“Good!” Leo said. “Come on, big boy. Come on!”
They  were  still  flying  in  way  too  hot,  and  the  ground  was  too  close.

Leo needed a place to land—fast.

There was a big river—no. Not good for a fire-breathing dragon. He’d
never  get  Festus  out  from  the  bottom  if  he  sank,  especially  in  freezing
temperatures. Then, on the riverbanks, Leo spotted a white mansion with a
huge  snowy  lawn  inside  a  tall  brick  perimeter  fence—like  some  rich
person’s private  compound,  all of it blazing  with  light.  A perfect  landing
field. He did his best to steer the dragon toward it, and Festus seemed to
come back to life. They could make this!

Then everything went wrong. As they approached the lawn, spotlights
along  the  fence  fixed  on  them,  blinding  Leo.  He  heard  bursts  like  tracer
fire, the sound of metal being cut to shreds—and BOOM.

Leo blacked out.

When Leo came to his senses, Jason and Piper were leaning over him. He
was  lying  in  the  snow,  covered  in  mud  and  grease.  He  spit  a  clump  of
frozen grass out of his mouth.

“Where—”
“Lie still.” Piper had tears in her eyes. “You rolled pretty hard when—

when Festus—”

“Where is he?” Leo sat up, but his head felt like it was floating. They’d
landed  inside  the  compound.  Something  had  happened  on  the  way  in—
gunfire?

“Seriously, Leo,” Jason said. “You could be hurt. You shouldn’t—”
Leo pushed himself to his feet. Then he saw the wreckage. Festus must
have  dropped  the  big  canary  cages  as  he  came  over  the  fence,  because
they’d  rolled  in  different  directions  and  landed  on  their  sides,  perfectly
undamaged.

Festus hadn’t been so lucky.
The  dragon  had  disintegrated.  His  limbs  were  scattered  across  the
lawn. His tail hung on the fence. The main section of his body had plowed
a  trench  twenty  feet  wide  and  fifty  feet  long  across  the  mansion’s  yard

before breaking apart. What remained of his hide was a charred, smoking
pile of scraps. Only his neck and head were somewhat intact, resting across
a row of frozen rosebushes like a pillow.

“No,” Leo sobbed. He ran to the dragon’s head and stroked its snout.

The dragon’s eyes flickered weakly. Oil leaked out of his ear.

“You can’t go,” Leo pleaded. “You’re the best thing I ever fixed.”
The  dragon’s  head  whirred  its  gears,  as  if  it  were  purring.  Jason  and

Piper stood next to him, but Leo kept his eyes fixed on the dragon.

He remembered what Hephaestus had said: That isn’t your fault, Leo.

Nothing lasts forever, not even the best machines.

His dad had been trying to warn him.
“It’s not fair,” he said.
The  dragon  clicked.  Long  creak.  Two  short  clicks.  Creak.  Creak.
Almost  like  a  pattern  …  triggering  an  old  memory  in  Leo’s  mind.  Leo
realized Festus was trying to say something. He was using Morse code—
just like Leo’s mom had taught him years ago. Leo listened more intently,
translating  the  clicks  into  letters:  a  simple  message  repeating  over  and
over.

“Yeah,” Leo said. “I understand. I will. I promise.”
The dragon’s eyes went dark. Festus was gone.
Leo  cried.  He  wasn’t  even  embarrassed.  His  friends  stood  on  either
side,  patting  his  shoulders,  saying  comforting  things;  but  the  buzzing  in
Leo’s ears drowned out their words.

Finally Jason said, “I’m so sorry, man. What did you promise Festus?”
Leo  sniffled.  He  opened  the  dragon’s  head  panel,  just  to  be  sure,  but

the control disk was cracked and burned beyond repair.

“Something my dad told me,” Leo said. “Everything can be reused.”
“Your dad talked to you?” Jason asked. “When was this?”
Leo  didn’t  answer.  He  worked  at  the  dragon’s  neck  hinges  until  the
head was detached. It weighed about a hundred pounds, but Leo managed
to hold it in his arms. He looked up at the starry sky and said, “Take him
back  to  the  bunker,  Dad.  Please,  until  I  can  reuse  him.  I’ve  never  asked
you for anything.”

The wind picked up, and the dragon’s head floated out of Leo’s arms

like it weighed nothing. It flew into the sky and disappeared.
Piper looked at him in amazement. “He answered you?”
“I had a dream,” Leo managed. “Tell you later.”
He knew he owed his friends a better explanation, but Leo could barely
speak. He felt like a broken machine himself—like someone had removed
one little part of him, and now he’d never be complete. He might move, he
might  talk,  he  might  keep  going  and  do  his  job.  But  he’d  always  be  off
balance, never calibrated exactly right.

Still,  he  couldn’t  afford  to  break  down  completely.  Otherwise,  Festus
had  died  for  nothing.  He  had  to  finish  this  quest—for  his  friends,  for  his
mom, for his dragon.

He looked around. The large white mansion glowed in the center of the
grounds. Tall brick walls with lights and security cameras surrounded the
perimeter,  but  now  Leo  could  see—or  rather  sense—just  how  well  those
walls were defended.

“Where are we?” he asked. “I mean, what city?”
“Omaha, Nebraska,” Piper said. “I saw a billboard as we flew in. But I
don’t know what this mansion is. We came in right behind you, but as you
were landing, Leo, I swear it looked like—I don’t know—”

“Lasers,”  Leo  said.  He  picked  up  a  piece  of  dragon  wreckage  and
threw it toward the top of the fence. Immediately a turret popped up from
the  brick  wall  and  a  beam  of  pure  heat  incinerated  the  bronze  plating  to
ashes.

Jason whistled. “Some defense system. How are we even alive?”
“Festus,” Leo said miserably. “He took the fire. The lasers sliced him
to  bits  as  he  came  in  so  they  didn’t  focus  on  you.  I  led  him  into  a  death
trap.”

“You couldn’t have known,” Piper said. “He saved our lives again.”
“But  what  now?”  Jason  said.  “The  main  gates  are  locked,  and  I’m

guessing I can’t fly us out of here without getting shot down.”

Leo looked up the walkway at the big white mansion. “Since we can’t

go out, we’ll have to go in.”

JASON  WOULD’VE  DIED  FIVE  TIMES on the  way  to  the  front door if  not  for
Leo.

First  it  was  the  motion-activated  trapdoor  on  the  sidewalk,  then  the
lasers on the  steps,  then  the  nerve  gas dispenser on the  porch railing, the
pressure-sensitive  poison  spikes  in  the  welcome  mat,  and  of  course  the
exploding doorbell.

Leo deactivated all of them. It was like he could smell the traps, and he

picked just the right tool out of his belt to disable them.

“You’re amazing, man,” Jason said.
Leo scowled as he examined the front door lock. “Yeah, amazing,” he

said. “Can’t fix a dragon right, but I’m amazing.”

“Hey, that wasn’t your—”
“Front door’s already unlocked,” Leo announced.
Piper  stared  at  the  door  in  disbelief.  “It  is?  All  those  traps,  and  the

door’s unlocked?”

Leo  turned  the  knob.  The  door  swung  open  easily.  He  stepped  inside

without hesitation.

Before Jason could follow, Piper caught his arm. “He’s going to need

some time to get over Festus. Don’t take it personally.”

“Yeah,” Jason said. “Yeah, okay.”
But still he felt terrible. Back in Medea’s store, he’d said some pretty
harsh  stuff  to  Leo—stuff  a  friend  shouldn’t  say,  not  to  mention  the  fact
he’d almost skewered Leo with a sword. If it hadn’t been for Piper, they’d
both be dead. And Piper hadn’t gotten out of that encounter easily, either.

“Piper,” he said, “I know I was in a daze back in Chicago, but that stuff
about your dad—if he’s in trouble, I want to help. I don’t care if it’s a trap
or not.”

Her eyes were always different colors, but now they looked shattered,
as if she’d seen something she just couldn’t cope with. “Jason, you don’t
know  what  you’re  saying.  Please—don’t  make  me  feel  worse.  Come  on.
We should stick together.”
She ducked inside.
“Together,” Jason said to himself. “Yeah, we’re doing great with that.”

Jason’s first impression of the house: Dark.

From  the  echo  of  his  footsteps  he  could  tell  the  entry  hall  was
enormous, even bigger than Boreas’s penthouse; but the only illumination
came from the yard lights outside. A faint glow peeked through the breaks
in the thick velvet curtains. The windows rose about ten feet tall. Spaced
between them along the walls were life-size metal statues. As Jason’s eyes
adjusted, he saw sofas arranged in a U in the middle of the room, with a
central coffee table and one large chair at the far end. A massive chandelier
glinted overhead. Along the back wall stood a row of closed doors.

“Where’s  the  light  switch?”  His  voice  echoed  alarmingly  through  the

room.

“Don’t see one,” Leo said.
“Fire?” Piper suggested.
Leo held out his hand, but nothing happened. “It’s not working.”
“Your fire is out? Why?” Piper asked.
“Well, if I knew that—”
“Okay, okay,” she said. “What do we do—explore?”
Leo shook his head. “After all those traps outside? Bad idea.”
Jason’s  skin  tingled.  He  hated  being  a  demigod.  Looking  around,  he
didn’t see a comfortable room to hang out in. He imagined vicious storm
spirits lurking in the curtains, dragons under the carpet, a chandelier made
of lethal ice shards, ready to impale them.

“Leo’s  right,”  he  said.  “We’re  not  separating  again—not  like  in

Detroit.”

“Oh,  thank  you  for  reminding  me  of  the  Cyclopes.”  Piper’s  voice

quavered. “I needed that.”

“It’s a few hours until dawn,” Jason guessed. “Too cold to wait outside.
Let’s  bring  the  cages  in  and  make  camp  in  this  room.  Wait  for  daylight;

then we can decide what to do.”

Nobody  offered  a  better  idea,  so  they  rolled  in  the  cages  with  Coach
Hedge  and  the  storm  spirits,  then  settled  in.  Thankfully,  Leo  didn’t  find
any poison throw pillows or electric whoopee cushions on the sofas.

Leo didn’t seem in the mood to make more tacos. Besides, they had no

fire, so they settled for cold rations.

As Jason ate, he studied the metal statues along the walls. They looked
like  Greek  gods  or  heroes.  Maybe  that  was  a  good  sign.  Or  maybe  they
were  used  for  target  practice.  On  the  coffee  table  sat  a  tea  service  and  a
stack of glossy brochures, but Jason couldn’t make out the words. The big
chair at the other end of the table looked like a throne. None of them tried
to sit in it.

The canary cages didn’t make the place any less creepy. The venti kept
churning  in  their  prison,  hissing  and  spinning,  and  Jason  got  the
uncomfortable feeling they were watching him. He could sense their hatred
for  the  children  of  Zeus—the  lord  of  the  sky  who’d  ordered  Aeolus  to
imprison their kind. The venti would like nothing better than to tear Jason
apart.

As for Coach Hedge, he was still frozen mid-shout, his cudgel raised.
Leo was working on the cage, trying to open it with various tools, but the
lock seemed to be giving him a hard time. Jason decided not to sit next to
him in case Hedge suddenly unfroze and went into ninja goat mode.

Despite how wired he felt, once his stomach was full, Jason started to
nod  off.  The  couches  were  a  little  too  comfortable  —a  lot  better  than  a
dragon’s back—and he’d taken the last two watches while his friends slept.
He was exhausted.

Piper  had  already  curled  up  on  the  other  sofa.  Jason  wondered  if  she
was  really  asleep  or  dodging  a  conversation  about  her  dad.  Whatever
Medea  had  meant  in  Chicago,  about  Piper  getting  her  dad  back  if  she
cooperated—it didn’t sound good. If Piper had risked her own dad to save
them, that made Jason feel even guiltier.

And they were running out of time. If Jason had his days straight, this
was  early  morning  of  December  20.  Which  meant  tomorrow  was  the
winter solstice.

“Get some sleep,” Leo said, still working on the locked cage. “It’s your

turn.”

Jason  took  a  deep  breath.  “Leo,  I’m  sorry  about  that  stuff  I  said  in
Chicago.  That  wasn’t  me.  You’re  not  annoying  and  you  do  take  stuff
seriously—especially your work. I wish I could do half the things you can
do.”

Leo  lowered  his  screwdriver.  He  looked  at  the  ceiling  and  shook  his

head like, What am I gonna do with this guy?

“I try very hard to be annoying,” Leo said. “Don’t insult my ability to
annoy. And how am I supposed to resent you if you go apologizing? I’m a
lowly mechanic. You’re like the prince of the sky, son of the Lord of the
Universe. I’m supposed to resent you.”

“Lord of the Universe?”
“Sure, you’re all—bam! Lightning man. And ‘Watch me fly. I am the

eagle that soars—’”

“Shut up, Valdez.”
Leo managed a little smile. “Yeah, see. I do annoy you.”
“I apologize for apologizing.”
“Thank you.” He went back to work, but the tension had eased between

them. Leo still looked sad and exhausted—just not quite so angry.

“Go  to  sleep,  Jason,”  he  ordered.  “It’s  gonna  take  a  few  hours  to  get
this goat man free. Then I still got to figure out how to make the winds a
smaller  holding  cell,  ’cause  I  am  not  lugging  that  canary  cage  to
California.”

“You did fix Festus, you know,” Jason said. “You gave him a purpose

again. I think this quest was the high point of his life.”

Jason was afraid he’d blown it and made Leo mad again, but Leo just

sighed.

“I  hope,”  he  said.  “Now,  sleep,  man.  I  want  some  time  without  you

organic life forms.”

Jason wasn’t quite sure what that meant, but he didn’t argue. He closed

his eyes and had a long, blissfully dreamless sleep.

He only woke when the yelling started.

“Ahhhggggggh!”

Jason  leaped  to  his  feet.  He  wasn’t  sure  what  was  more  jarring—the

full sunlight that now bathed the room, or the screaming satyr.

“Coach is awake,” Leo said, which was kind of unnecessary. Gleeson
Hedge  was  capering  around  on  his  furry  hindquarters,  swinging  his  club
and  yelling,  “Die!”  as  he  smashed  the  tea  set,  whacked  the  sofas,  and
charged at the throne.

“Coach!” Jason yelled.
Hedge turned, breathing hard. His eyes were so wild, Jason was afraid
he might attack. The satyr was still wearing his orange polo shirt and his
coach’s whistle, but his horns were clearly visible above his curly hair, and
his  beefy  hindquarters  were  definitely  all  goat.  Could  you  call  a  goat
beefy? Jason put the thought aside.

“You’re  the  new  kid,”  Hedge  said,  lowering  his  club.  “Jason.”  He
looked at Leo, then Piper, who’d apparently also just woken up. Her hair
looked like it had become a nest for a friendly hamster.

“Valdez, McLean,” the coach said. “What’s going on? We were at the
Grand  Canyon.  The anemoi thuellai were  attacking  and—”  He  zeroed  in
on the storm spirit cage, and his eyes went back to DEFCON 1. “Die!”

“Whoa, Coach!” Leo stepped in his path, which was pretty brave, even
though  Hedge  was  six  inches  shorter.  “It’s  okay.  They’re  locked  up.  We
just sprang you from the other cage.”

“Cage? Cage? What’s going on? Just because I’m a satyr doesn’t mean

I can’t have you doing plank push-ups, Valdez!”

Jason cleared his throat. “Coach—Gleeson—um, whatever you want us

to call you. You saved us at the Grand Canyon. You were totally brave.”

“Of course I was!”
“The  extraction  team  came  and  took  us  to  Camp  Half-Blood.  We
thought we’d lost you. Then we got word the storm spirits had taken you
back to their—um, operator, Medea.”

“That witch! Wait—that’s impossible. She’s mortal. She’s dead.”
“Yeah, well,” Leo said, “somehow she got not dead anymore.”
Hedge nodded, his eyes narrowing. “So! You were sent on a dangerous

quest to rescue me. Excellent!”

“Um.”  Piper  got  to  her  feet,  holding  out  her  hands  so  Coach  Hedge
wouldn’t  attack  her.  “Actually,  Glee—can  I  still  call  you  Coach  Hedge?
Gleeson  seems  wrong.  We’re  on  a  quest  for  something  else.  We  kind  of
found you by accident.”

“Oh.”  The  coach’s  spirits  seemed  to  deflate,  but  only  for  a  second.
Then his eyes lit up again. “But there are no accidents! Not on quests. This
was meant to  happen!  So,  this  is  the  witch’s  lair,  eh?  Why  is  everything
gold?”

“Gold?”  Jason  looked  around.  From  the  way  Leo  and  Piper  caught

their breath, he guessed they hadn’t noticed yet either.

The room was full of gold—the statues, the tea set Hedge had smashed,
the chair that was definitely a throne. Even the curtains—which seemed to
have  opened  by  themselves  at  daybreak—appeared  to  be  woven  of  gold
fiber.

“Nice,” Leo said. “No wonder they got so much security.”
“This isn’t—” Piper stammered. “This isn’t Medea’s place, Coach. It’s
some  rich  person’s  mansion  in  Omaha.  We  got  away  from  Medea  and
crash-landed here.”

“It’s  destiny,  cupcakes!”  Hedge  insisted.  “I’m  meant  to  protect  you.

What’s the quest?”

Before Jason could decide if he wanted to explain or just shove Coach

Hedge back into his cage, a door opened at the far end of the room.

A pudgy man in a white bathrobe stepped out with a golden toothbrush
in  his  mouth. He  had a white  beard  and one of those  long,  old-fashioned
sleeping  caps  pressed  down  over  his  white  hair.  He  froze  when  he  saw
them, and the toothbrush fell out of his mouth.

He glanced into the room behind him and called, “Son? Lit, come out

here, please. There are strange people in the throne room.”

Coach  Hedge  did  the  obvious  thing.  He  raised  his  club  and  shouted,

“Die!”

IT TOOK ALL THREE OF THEM to hold back the satyr. “Whoa, Coach!” Jason
said.  “Bring  it  down  a  few  notches.”  A  younger  man  charged  into  the
room. Jason guessed he must be Lit, the old guy’s son. He was dressed in
pajama pants with a sleeveless T-shirt that said cornhuskers, and he held a
sword that looked like it could husk a lot of things besides corn. His ripped
arms  were  covered  in  scars,  and  his  face,  framed  by  curly  dark  hair,
would’ve been handsome if it wasn’t also sliced up.

Lit immediately zeroed in on Jason like he was the biggest threat, and
stalked  toward  him,  swinging  his  sword  overhead.  “Hold  on!”  Piper
stepped  forward,  trying  for  her  best  calming  voice.  “This  is  just  a
misunderstanding! Everything’s fine.” Lit stopped in his tracks, but he still
looked wary. It didn’t help that Hedge was screaming, “I’ll get them!

Don’t worry!”
“Coach,”  Jason  pleaded,  “they  may  be  friendly.  Besides,  we’re

trespassing in their house.”

“Thank  you!”  said  the  old  man  in  the  bathrobe.  “Now,  who  are  you,

and why are you here?”

“Let’s all put our weapons down,” Piper said. “Coach, you first.”
Hedge clenched his jaw. “Just one thwack?”
“No,” Piper said.
“What about a compromise? I’ll kill them first, and if it turns out they

were friendly, I’ll apologize.”
“No!” Piper insisted.
“Meh.” Coach Hedge lowered his club.
Piper  gave  Lit  a  friendly  sorry-about-that  smile.  Even  with  her  hair
messed  up  and  wearing  two-day-old  clothes,  she  looked  extremely  cute,
and Jason felt a little jealous she was giving Lit that smile.

Lit huffed and sheathed his sword. “You speak well, girl—fortunately

for your friends, or I would’ve run them through.”

“Appreciate  it,”  Leo  said.  “I  try  not  to  get  run  through  before

lunchtime.”

The  old  man  in  the  bathrobe  sighed,  kicking  the  teapot  that  Coach

Hedge had smashed. “Well, since you’re here. Please, sit down.”

Lit frowned. “Your Majesty—”
“No,  no,  it’s  fine,  Lit,”  the  old  man  said.  “New  land,  new  customs.
They  may  sit  in  my  presence.  After  all,  they’ve  seen  me  in  my
nightclothes.  No  sense  observing  formalities.”  He  did  his  best  to  smile,
though it looked a little forced. “Welcome to my humble home. I am King
Midas.”

“Midas? Impossible,” said Coach Hedge. “He died.”
They  were  sitting  on  the  sofas  now,  while  the  king  reclined  on  his
throne.  Tricky  to  do  that  in  a  bathrobe,  and  Jason  kept  worrying  the  old
guy would forget and uncross his legs. Hopefully he was wearing golden
boxers under there.

Lit stood behind the throne, both hands on his sword, glancing at Piper
and flexing  his  muscular  arms just to  be annoying.  Jason wondered  if he
looked that ripped holding a sword. Sadly, he doubted it.

Piper sat forward. “What our satyr friend means, Your Majesty, is that
you’re  the  second  mortal  we’ve  met  who  should  be—sorry—dead.  King
Midas lived thousands of years ago.”

“Interesting.”  The  king  gazed  out  the  windows  at  the  brilliant  blue
skies  and  the  winter  sunlight.  In  the  distance,  downtown  Omaha  looked
like a cluster of children’s blocks —way too clean and small for a regular
city.

“You  know,”  the  king  said,  “I  think  I  was a  bit  dead  for  a  while.  It’s

strange. Seems like a dream, doesn’t it, Lit?”
“A very long dream, Your Majesty.”
“And yet, now we’re here. I’m enjoying myself very much. I like being

alive better.”

“But how?” Piper asked. “You didn’t happen to have a … patron?”
Midas  hesitated,  but  there  was  a  sly  twinkle  in  his  eyes.  “Does  it

matter, my dear?”

“We could kill them again,” Hedge suggested.
“Coach, not helping,” Jason said. “Why don’t you go outside and stand

guard?”

Leo coughed. “Is that safe? They’ve got some serious security.”
“Oh,  yes,” the  king  said.  “Sorry  about  that. But it’s lovely stuff, isn’t
it? Amazing what gold can still buy. Such excellent toys you have in this
country!”

He  fished  a  remote  control  out  of  his  bathrobe  pocket  and  pressed  a

few buttons—a pass code, Jason guessed.

“There,” Midas said. “Safe to go out now.”
Coach  Hedge  grunted.  “Fine.  But  if  you  need  me  …”  He  winked  at
Jason  meaningfully.  Then  he  pointed  at  himself,  pointed  two  fingers  at
their hosts, and sliced a finger across his throat. Very subtle sign language.

“Yeah, thanks,” Jason said.
After  the  satyr  left,  Piper  tried  another  diplomatic  smile.  “So  …  you

don’t know how you got here?”

“Oh, well, yes. Sort of,” the king said. He frowned at Lit. “Why did we

pick Omaha, again? I know it wasn’t the weather.”

“The oracle,” Lit said.
“Yes!  I  was  told  there  was  an  oracle  in  Omaha.”  The  king  shrugged.
“Apparently I was mistaken. But this is a rather nice house, isn’t it? Lit—
it’s short for Lityerses, by the way—horrible name, but his mother insisted
—Lit  has  plenty  of  wide-open  space  to  practice  his  swordplay.  He  has
quite a reputation for that. They called him the Reaper of Men back in the
old days.”

“Oh.” Piper tried to sound enthusiastic. “How nice.”
Lit’s  smile  was  more  of  a  cruel  sneer.  Jason  was  now  one  hundred
percent sure he didn’t like this guy, and he was starting to regret sending
Hedge outside.

“So,” Jason said. “All this gold—”
The king’s eyes lit up. “Are you here for gold, my boy? Please, take a

brochure!”

Jason looked at the brochures on the coffee table. The title said GOLD:

Invest for Eternity. “Um, you sell gold?”

“No, no,” the king said. “I make it. In uncertain times like these, gold is
the  wisest  investment,  don’t  you  think?  Governments  fall.  The  dead  rise.
Giants attack Olympus. But gold retains its value!”
Leo frowned. “I’ve seen that commercial.”
“Oh, don’t be fooled by cheap imitators!” the king said. “I assure you, I
can beat any price for a serious investor. I can make a wide assortment of
gold items at a moment’s notice.”

“But …” Piper shook her head in confusion. “Your Majesty, you gave

up the golden touch, didn’t you?”

The king looked astonished. “Gave it up?”
“Yes,” Piper said. “You got it from some god—”
“Dionysus,”  the  king  agreed.  “I’d  rescued  one  of  his  satyrs,  and  in

return, the god granted me one wish. I chose the golden touch.”

“But  you  accidentally  turned  your  own  daughter  to  gold,”  Piper
remembered.  “And  you  realized  how  greedy  you’d  been.  So  you
repented.”

“Repented!”  King  Midas  looked  at  Lit  incredulously.  “You  see,  son?
You’re  away  for  a  few  thousand  years,  and  the  story  gets  twisted  all
around. My dear girl, did those stories ever say I’d lost my magic touch?”

“Well,  I  guess  not.  They  just  said  you  learned  how  to  reverse  it  with

running water, and you brought your daughter back to life.”

“That’s all true. Sometimes I still have to reverse my touch. There’s no
running water in the house because I don’t want accidents”—he gestured
to  his  statues—“but  we  chose  to  live  next  to  a  river  just  in  case.
Occasionally, I’ll forget and pat Lit on the back—”

Lit retreated a few steps. “I hate that.”
“I told you I was sorry, son. At any rate, gold is wonderful. Why would

I give it up?”

“Well …” Piper looked truly lost now. “Isn’t that the point of the story?

That you learned your lesson?”

Midas  laughed.  “My  dear,  may  I  see  your  backpack  for  a  moment?

Toss it here.”

Piper  hesitated,  but  she  wasn’t  eager  to  offend  the  king.  She  dumped
everything out of the pack and tossed it to Midas. As soon as he caught it,

the pack turned to gold, like frost spreading across the fabric. It still looked
flexible and soft, but definitely gold. The king tossed it back.

“As you see, I can still turn anything to gold,” Midas said. “That pack
is  magic  now,  as  well.  Go  ahead—put  your  little  storm  spirit  enemies  in
there.”

“Seriously?” Leo was suddenly interested. He took the bag from Piper
and held it up to the cage. As soon as he unzipped the backpack, the winds
stirred  and  howled  in  protest.  The  cage  bars  shuddered.  The  door  of  the
prison flew open and the winds got vacuumed straight into the pack. Leo
zipped it shut and grinned. “Gotta admit. That’s cool.”

“You  see?”  Midas  said.  “My  golden  touch  a  curse?  Please.  I  didn’t
learn any lesson, and life isn’t a story, girl. Honestly, my daughter Zoe was
much more pleasant as a gold statue.”
“She talked a lot,” Lit offered.
“Exactly! And so I turned her back to gold.” Midas pointed. There in
the corner was a golden statue of a girl with a shocked expression, as if she
were thinking, Dad!

“That’s horrible!” Piper said.
“Nonsense. She doesn’t mind. Besides, if I’d learned my lesson, would

I have gotten these?”

Midas  pulled  off  his  oversize  sleeping  cap,  and  Jason  didn’t  know
whether to laugh or get sick. Midas had long fuzzy gray ears sticking up
from his white hair—like Bugs Bunny’s, but they weren’t rabbit ears. They
were donkey ears.

“Oh, wow,” Leo said. “I didn’t need to see that.”
“Terrible, isn’t it?” Midas sighed. “A few years after the golden touch
incident, I judged a music contest between Apollo and Pan, and I declared
Pan the winner. Apollo, sore loser, said I must have the ears of an ass, and
voilà. This was my reward for being truthful. I tried to keep them a secret.
Only my barber knew, but he couldn’t help blabbing.” Midas pointed out
another  golden  statue—a  bald  man  in  a  toga,  holding  a  pair  of  shears.
“That’s him. He won’t be telling anyone’s secrets again.”

The king smiled. Suddenly he didn’t strike Jason as a harmless old man
in a bathrobe. His eyes had a merry glow to them—the look of a madman
who knew he was mad, accepted his madness, and enjoyed it. “Yes, gold

has  many  uses.  I  think  that  must be  why  I  was  brought  back,  eh  Lit?  To
bankroll our patron.”

Lit nodded. “That and my good sword arm.”
Jason glanced at his friends. Suddenly the air in the room seemed much

colder.

“So you do have a patron,” Jason said. “You work for the giants.”
King Midas waved his hand dismissively. “Well, I don’t care for giants
myself, of course. But even supernatural armies need to get paid. I do owe
my patron a great debt. I tried to explain that to the last group that came
through, but they were very unfriendly. Wouldn’t cooperate at all.”

Jason slipped his hand into his pocket and grabbed his gold coin. “The

last group?”

“Hunters,” Lit snarled. “Blasted girls from Artemis.”
Jason felt a spark of electricity—a literal spark—travel down his spine.
He  caught  a  whiff  of  electrical  fire  like  he’d  just  melted  some  of  the
springs in the sofa.

His sister had been here.
“When?” he demanded. “What happened?”
Lit shrugged. “Few days ago? I didn’t get to kill them, unfortunately.
They  were  looking  for  some  evil  wolves,  or  something.  Said  they  were
following a trail, heading west. Missing demigod—I don’t recall.”

Percy  Jackson,  Jason  thought.  Annabeth  had  mentioned  the  Hunters
were looking for him. And in Jason’s dream of the burned-out house in the
redwoods,  he’d  heard  enemy  wolves  baying.  Hera  had  called  them  her
keepers. It had to be connected somehow.

Midas scratched his donkey ears. “Very unpleasant young ladies, those
Hunters,”  he  recalled.  “They  absolutely  refused  to  be  turned  into  gold.
Much  of  the  security  system  outside  I  installed  to  keep  that  sort  of  thing
from  happening  again,  you  know.  I  don’t  have  time  for  those  who  aren’t
serious investors.”

Jason stood warily and glanced at his friends. They got the message.
“Well,” Piper said, managing a smile. “It’s been a great visit. Welcome

back to life. Thanks for the gold bag.”

“Oh,  but  you  can’t  leave!”  Midas  said.  “I  know  you’re  not  serious

investors, but that’s all right! I have to rebuild my collection.”

Lit was smiling cruelly. The king rose, and Leo and Piper moved away

from him.

“Don’t worry,” the king assured them. “You don’t have to be turned to
gold. I give all my guests a choice—join my collection, or die at the hands
of Lityerses. Really, it’s good either way.”

Piper tried to use her charmspeak. “Your Majesty, you can’t—”
Quicker than any old man should’ve been able to move, Midas lashed

out and grabbed her wrist.
“No!” Jason yelled.
But  a  frost  of  gold  spread  over  Piper,  and  in  a  heartbeat  she  was  a
glittering  statue.  Leo  tried  to  summon  fire,  but  he’d  forgotten  his  power
wasn’t  working.  Midas  touched  his  hand,  and  Leo  transformed  into  solid
metal.

Jason was so horrified he couldn’t move. His friends—just gone. And

he hadn’t been able to stop it.

Midas smiled apologetically. “Gold trumps fire, I’m afraid.” He waved
around him at all the gold curtains and furniture. “In this room, my power
dampens  all  others:  fire…  even  charmspeak.  Which  leaves  me  only  one
more trophy to collect.”

“Hedge!” Jason yelled. “Need help in here!”
For once, the  satyr didn’t charge in.  Jason wondered  if  the  lasers had

gotten him, or if he was sitting at the bottom of a trap pit.

Midas chuckled. “No goat to the rescue? Sad. But don’t worry, my boy.

It’s really not painful. Lit can tell you.”

Jason fixed on an idea. “I choose combat. You said I could choose to

fight Lit instead.”

Midas looked mildly disappointed, but he shrugged. “I said you could

die fighting Lit. But of course, if you wish.”

The king backed away, and Lit raised his sword.
“I’m going to enjoy this,” Lit said. “I am the Reaper of Men!”
“Come on, Cornhusker.” Jason summoned his own weapon. This time

it came up as a javelin, and Jason was glad for the extra length.

“Oh, gold weapon!” Midas said. “Very nice.”
Lit charged.

The guy was fast. He slashed and sliced, and Jason could barely dodge
the  strikes,  but  his  mind  went  into  a  different  mode—analyzing  patterns,
learning Lit’s style, which was all offense, no defense.

Jason countered, sidestepped, and blocked. Lit seemed surprised to find

him still alive.

“What is that style?” Lit growled. “You don’t fight like a Greek.”
“Legion training,” Jason said, though he wasn’t sure how he knew that.

“It’s Roman.”

“Roman?”  Lit  struck  again,  and  Jason  deflected  his  blade.  “What  is

Roman?”

“News  flash,”  Jason  said.  “While  you  were  dead,  Rome  defeated

Greece. Created the greatest empire of all time.”

“Impossible,” Lit said. “Never even heard of them.”
Jason spun on one heel,  smacked Lit in  the  chest  with  the  butt of his

javelin, and sent him toppling into Midas’s throne.

“Oh, dear,” Midas said. “Lit?”
“I’m fine,” Lit growled.
“You’d better help him up,” Jason said.
Lit cried, “Dad, no!”
Too late. Midas put his hand on his son’s shoulder, and suddenly a very

angry-looking gold statue was sitting on Midas’s throne.

“Curses!”  Midas  wailed.  “That  was  a naughty  trick,  demigod. I’ll  get
you for that.” He patted Lit’s golden shoulder. “Don’t worry, son. I’ll get
you down to the river right after I collect this prize.”

Midas  raced  forward.  Jason  dodged,  but  the  old  man  was  fast,  too.
Jason  kicked  the  coffee  table  into  the  old  man’s  legs  and  knocked  him
over, but Midas wouldn’t stay down for long.

Then Jason glanced at Piper’s golden statue. Anger washed over him.

He was the son of Zeus. He could not fail his friends.

He felt a tugging sensation in his gut, and the air pressure dropped so
rapidly  that  his  ears  popped.  Midas  must’ve  felt  it  too,  because  he
stumbled to his feet and grabbed his donkey ears.

“Ow!  What  are  you  doing?”  he  demanded.  “My  power  is  supreme

here!”

Thunder rumbled. Outside, the sky turned black.
“You know another good use for gold?” Jason said.
Midas raised his eyebrows, suddenly excited. “Yes?”
“It’s an excellent conductor of electricity.”
Jason  raised  his  javelin,  and  the  ceiling  exploded.  A  lightning  bolt
ripped through the roof like it was an eggshell, connected with the tip of
Jason’s spear, and sent out arcs of energy that blasted the sofas to shreds.
Chunks  of  ceiling  plaster  crashed  down.  The  chandelier  groaned  and
snapped offits chain, and Midas screamed as it pinned him to the floor. The
glass immediately turned into gold.

When  the  rumbling  stopped,  freezing  rain  poured  into  the  building.
Midas  cursed  in  Ancient  Greek,  thoroughly  pinned  under  his  chandelier.
The  rain  soaked  everything,  turning  the  gold  chandelier  back  to  glass.
Piper and Leo were slowly changing too, along with the other statues in the
room.

Then  the  front  door  burst  open,  and  Coach  Hedge  charged  in,  club

ready. His mouth was covered with dirt, snow, and grass.

“What’d I miss?” he asked.
“Where  were  you?”  Jason  demanded.  His  head  was  spinning  from
summoning  the  lightning  bolt,  and  it  was  all  he  could  do  to  keep  from
passing out. “I was screaming for help.”

Hedge belched. “Getting a snack. Sorry. Who needs killing?”
“No one, now!” Jason said. “Just grab Leo. I’ll get Piper.”
“Don’t leave me like this!” Midas wailed.
All  around  him  the  statues  of  his  victims  were  turning  to  flesh—his

daughter, his barber, and a whole lot of angry-looking guys with swords.

Jason grabbed Piper’s golden bag and his own supplies.
Then  he  threw  a  rug  over  the  golden  statue  of  Lit  on  the  throne.
Hopefully that would keep the Reaper of Men from turning back to flesh—
at least until after Midas’s victims did.

“Let’s get out of here,” Jason told Hedge. “I think these guys will want

some quality time with Midas.”

PIPER WOKE UP COLD AND SHIVERING.

She’d had the worst dream about an old guy with donkey ears chasing

her around and shouting, You’re it!

“Oh, god.” Her teeth chattered. “He turned me to gold!”
“You’re  okay  now.”  Jason  leaned  over  and  tucked  a  warm  blanket

around her, but she still felt as cold as a Boread.

She  blinked,  trying  to  figure  out  where  they  were.  Next  to  her,  a
campfire  blazed,  turning  the  air  sharp  with  smoke.  Firelight  flickered
against rock walls. They were in a shallow cave, but it didn’t offer much
protection.  Outside,  the  wind  howled.  Snow  blew  sideways.  It  might’ve
been day or night. The storm made it too dark to tell.

“L-L-Leo?” Piper managed.
“Present  and  un-gold-ified.”  Leo  was  also  wrapped  in  blankets.  He
didn’t  look  great,  but  better  than  Piper  felt.  “I  got  the  precious  metal
treatment too,” he said. “But I came out of it faster. Dunno why. We had to
dunk you in the river to get you back completely. Tried to dry you off, but
… it’s really, really cold.”

“You’ve  got  hypothermia,”  Jason  said.  “We  risked  as  much  nectar  as

we could. Coach Hedge did a little nature magic—”

“Sports medicine.” The coach’s ugly face loomed over her. “Kind of a
hobby  of  mine.  Your  breath  might  smell  like  wild  mushrooms  and
Gatorade for a few days, but it’ll pass. You probably won’t die. Probably.”

“Thanks,” Piper said weakly. “How did you beat Midas?”
Jason told her the story, putting most of it down to luck.
The coach snorted. “Kid’s being modest. You should’ve seen him. Hi-

yah! Slice! Boom with the lightning!”

“Coach, you didn’t even see it,” Jason said. “You were outside eating

the lawn.”

But the satyr was just warming up. “Then I came in with my club, and
we dominated that room. Afterward, I told him, ‘Kid, I’m proud of you! If
you could just work on your upper body strength—’”

“Coach,” said Jason.
“Yeah?”
“Shut up, please.”
“Sure.” The coach sat down at the fire and started chewing his cudgel.
Jason  put  his  hand  on  Piper’s  forehead  and  checked  her  temperature.

“Leo, can you stoke the fire?”

“On it.” Leo summoned a baseball-sized clump of flames and lobbed it

into the campfire.

“Do I look that bad?” Piper shivered.
“Nah,” Jason said.
“You’re a terrible liar,” she said. “Where are we?”
“Pikes Peak,” Jason said. “Colorado.”
“But that’s, what—five hundred miles from Omaha?”
“Something  like  that,”  Jason  agreed.  “I  harnessed  the  storm  spirits  to
bring  us  this  far.  They  didn’t  like  it—went  a  little  faster  than  I  wanted,
almost  crashed  us  into  the  mountainside  before  I  could  get  them  back  in
the bag. I’m not going to be trying that again.”

“Why are we here?”
Leo sniffed. “That’s what I asked him.”
Jason gazed into the storm as if watching for something. “That glittery
wind trail we saw yesterday? It was still in the sky, though it had faded a
lot. I followed it until I couldn’t see it anymore. Then—honestly I’m not
sure. I just felt like this was the right place to stop.”

“’Course it is.” Coach Hedge spit out some cudgel splinters. “Aeolus’s
floating palace should be anchored above us, right at the peak. This is one
of his favorite spots to dock.”

“Maybe  that  was  it.”  Jason  knit  his  eyebrows.  “I  don’t  know.

Something else, too …”

“The  Hunters  were  heading  west,”  Piper  remembered.  “Do  you  think

they’re around here?”

Jason rubbed his forearm as if the tattoos were bothering him. “I don’t
see  how  anyone  could  survive  on  the  mountain  right  now.  The  storm’s
pretty bad. It’s already the evening before the solstice, but we didn’t have
much choice except to wait out the storm here. We had to give you some
time to rest before we tried moving.”

He  didn’t  need  to  convince  her.  The  wind  howling  outside  the  cave

scared her, and she couldn’t stop shivering.

“We have to get you warm.” Jason sat next to her and held out his arms

a little awkwardly. “Uh, you mind if I …”

“I suppose.” She tried to sound nonchalant.
He  put  his  arms  around  her  and  held  her.  They  scooted  closer  to  the

fire. Coach Hedge chewed on his club and spit splinters into the fire.

Leo broke out some cooking supplies and started frying burger patties
on an iron skillet. “So, guys, long as you’re cuddled up for story time …
something I’ve been meaning to tell you. On the way to Omaha, I had this
dream. Kinda hard to understand with the static and the Wheel of Fortune
breaking in—”

“Wheel  of  Fortune?”  Piper  assumed  Leo  was  kidding,  but  when  he

looked up from his burgers, his expression was deadly serious.
“The thing is,” he said, “my dad Hephaestus talked to me.”
Leo told them about his dream. In the firelight, with the wind howling,
the story was even creepier. Piper could imagine the static-filled voice of
the god warning about giants who were the sons of Tartarus, and about Leo
losing some friends along the way.

She tried to concentrate on something good: Jason’s arms around her,
the warmth slowly spreading into her body, but she was terrified. “I don’t
understand. If demigods and gods have to work together to kill the giants,
why would the gods stay silent? If they need us—”

“Ha,” said Coach Hedge. “The gods hate needing humans. They like to
be needed by humans,  but  not  the  other  way  around. Things  will have to
get  a  whole  lot  worse  before  Zeus  admits  he  made  a  mistake  closing
Olympus.”

“Coach,” Piper said, “that was almost an intelligent comment.”

Hedge huffed. “What? I’m intelligent! I’m not surprised you cupcakes
haven’t heard of the Giant War. The gods don’t like to talk about it. Bad
PR  to  admit  you  needed  mortals  to  help  beat  an  enemy.  That’s  just
embarrassing.”

“There’s  more,  though,”  Jason  said.  “When  I  dreamed  about  Hera  in
her  cage,  she  said  Zeus  was  acting  unusually  paranoid.  And  Hera—she
said she went to those ruins because a voice had been speaking in her head.
What if someone’s influencing the gods, like Medea influenced us?”

Piper  shuddered.  She’d  had  a  similar  thought—that  some  force  they
couldn’t see was manipulating things behind the scenes, helping the giants.
Maybe  the  same  force  was  keeping  Enceladus  informed  about  their
movements,  and  had  even  knocked  their  dragon  out  of  the  sky  over
Detroit. Perhaps Leo’s sleeping Dirt Woman, or another servant of hers …
Leo set hamburger buns on the skillet to toast. “Yeah, Hephaestus said
something  similar,  like  Zeus  was  acting  weirder  than  usual.  But  what
bothered me was the stuff my dad didn’t say. Like a couple of times he was
talking about the demigods, and how he had so many kids and all. I don’t
know. He acted like getting the greatest demigods together was going to be
almost impossible—like Hera was trying, but it was a really stupid thing to
do, and there was some secret Hephaestus wasn’t supposed to tell me.”

Jason shifted. Piper could feel the tension in his arms.
“Chiron  was  the  same  way  back  at  camp,”  he  said.  “He  mentioned  a
sacred  oath  not  to  discuss—something.  Coach,  you  know  anything  about
that?”

“Nah. I’m just a satyr. They don’t tell us the juicy stuff. Especially an

old—” He stopped himself.

“An old guy like you?” Piper asked. “But you’re not that old, are you?”
“Hundred and six,” the coach muttered.
Leo coughed. “Say what?”
“Don’t  catch  your  panties  on  fire,  Valdez.  That’s  just  fifty-three  in
human years. Still, yeah, I made some enemies on the Council of Cloven
Elders.  I’ve  been  a  protector  a  longtime.  But  they  started  saying  I  was
getting unpredictable. Too violent. Can you imagine?”

“Wow.” Piper tried not to look at her friends. “That’s hard to believe.”

Coach scowled. “Yeah, then finally we get a good war going with the
Titans,  and  do  they  put  me  on  the  front  lines?  No!  They  send  me  as  far
away as possible—the Canadian frontier, can you believe it? Then after the
war, they put me out to pasture. The Wilderness School. Bah! Like I’m too
old  to  be  helpful  just  because  I  like  playing  offense.  All  those  flower-
pickers on the Council—talking about nature.”

“I thought satyrs liked nature,” Piper ventured.
“Shoot,  I  love  nature,”  Hedge  said.  “Nature  means  big  things  killing
and  eating  little  things!  And  when  you’re  a  —you  know—vertically
challenged satyr like me, you get in good shape, you carry a big stick, and
you  don’t  take  nothing  from  no  one!  That’s  nature.”  Hedge  snorted
indignantly.  “Flower-pickers.  Anyway,  I  hope  you  got  something
vegetarian cooking, Valdez. I don’t do flesh.”

“Yeah,  Coach.  Don’t  eat  your  cudgel.  I  got  some  tofu  patties  here.

Piper’s a vegetarian too. I’ll throw them on in a second.”

The smell of frying burgers filled the air. Piper usually hated the smell

of cooking meat, but her stomach rumbled like it wanted to mutiny.
I’m losing it, she thought. Think broccoli. Carrots. Lentils.
Her  stomach  wasn’t  the  only  thing  rebelling.  Lying  by  the  fire,  with
Jason holding her, Piper’s conscience felt like a hot bullet slowing working
its  way  toward  her  heart.  All  the  guilt  she’d  been  holding  in  for  the  last
week,  since  the  giant  Enceladus  had  first  sent  her  a  dream,  was  about  to
kill her.

Her friends wanted to help her. Jason even said he’d walk into a trap to

save her dad. And Piper had shut them out.

For all she knew, she’d already doomed her father when she attacked

Medea.

She choked back a sob. Maybe she’d done the right thing in Chicago
by saving her friends, but she’d only delayed her problem. She could never
betray her friends, but the tiniest part of her was desperate enough to think,
What if I did?

She  tried  to  imagine  what  her  dad  would  say.  Hey,  Dad,  if  you  were
ever chained up by a cannibal giant and I had to betray a couple of friends
to save you, what should I do?

Funny,  that  had  never  come  up  when  they  did  Any  Three  Questions.
Her dad would never take the question seriously, of course. He’d probably
tell  her  one  of  Grandpa  Tom’s  old  stories—something  with  glowing
hedgehogs and talking birds—and then laugh about it as if the advice was
silly.

Piper  wished  she  remembered  her  grandpa  better.  Sometimes  she
dreamed  about  that  little  two-room  house  in  Oklahoma.  She  wondered
what it would’ve been like to grow up there.

Her  dad  would  think  that  was  nuts.  He’d  had  spent  his  whole  life
running away from that place, distancing himself from the rez, playing any
role except Native American. He’d always told Piper how lucky she was to
grow up rich and well cared-for, in a nice house in California.

She’d  learned  to  be  vaguely  uncomfortable  about  her  ancestry—like
Dad’s old pictures from the eighties, when he had feathered hair and crazy
clothes. Can you believe I ever looked like that? he’d say. Being Cherokee
was the same way for him—something funny and mildly embarrassing.

But what else were they? Dad didn’t seem to know. Maybe that’s why
he was always so unhappy, changing roles. Maybe that’s why Piper started
stealing things, looking for something her dad couldn’t give her.

Leo put tofu patties on the skillet. The wind kept raging. Piper thought
of an old story her dad had told her … one that maybe did answer some of
her questions.

One day in second grade she’d come home in tears and demanded why her
father had named her Piper. The kids were making fun of her because Piper
Cherokee was a kind of airplane.

Her dad laughed, as if that had never occurred to him. “No, Pipes. Fine
airplane.  That’s  not  how  I  named  you.  Grandpa  Tom  picked  out  your
name.  First  time  he  heard  you  cry,  he  said  you  had  a  powerful  voice—
better  than  any  reed  flute  piper.  He  said  you’d  learn  to  sing  the  hardest
Cherokee songs, even the snake song.”

“The snake song?”
Dad told her the legend—how one day a Cherokee woman had seen a
snake playing too near her children and killed it with a rock, not realizing
it was the king of rattlesnakes. The snakes prepared for war on the humans,
but  the  woman’s  husband  tried  to  make  peace.  He  promised  he’d  do

anything to repay the rattlesnakes. The snakes held him to his word. They
told him to send his wife to the well so the snakes could bite her and take
her  life  in  exchange.  The  man  was  heartbroken,  but  he  did  what  they
asked. Afterward, the snakes were impressed that the man had given up so
much  and  kept  his  promise.  They  taught  him  the  snake  song  for  all  the
Cherokee to use. From that point on, if any Cherokee met a snake and sang
that song, the snake would recognize the Cherokee as a friend, and would
not bite.

“That’s awful!” Piper had said. “He let his wife die?”
Her dad spread his hands. “It was a hard sacrifice. But one life brought
generations of peace between snakes and Cherokee. Grandpa Tom believed
that  Cherokee  music  could  solve  almost  any  problem.  He  thought  you’d
know lots of songs, and be the greatest musician of the family. That’s why
we named you Piper.”

A  hard  sacrifice.  Had  her  grandfather  foreseen  something  about  her,
even when she was a baby? Had he sensed she was a child of Aphrodite?
Her  dad  would  probably  tell  her  that  was  crazy.  Grandpa  Tom  was  no
oracle.

But  still  …  she’d  made  a  promise  to  help  on  this  quest.  Her  friends
were  counting  on  her.  They’d  saved  her  when  Midas  had  turned  her  to
gold. They’d brought her back to life. She couldn’t repay them with lies.

Gradually,  she  started  to  feel  warmer.  She  stopped  shivering  and  settled
against Jason’s chest. Leo handed out the food. Piper didn’t want to move,
talk, or do anything to disrupt the moment. But she had to.

“We need to talk.” She sat up so she could face Jason. “I don’t want to

hide anything from you guys anymore.”

They looked at her with their mouths full of burger. Too late to change

her mind now.

“Three nights before the Grand Canyon trip,” she said, “I had a dream
vision—a giant, telling me my father had been taken hostage. He told me I
had to cooperate, or my dad would be killed.”

The flames crackled.
Finally Jason said, “Enceladus? You mentioned that name before.”

Coach  Hedge  whistled.  “Big  giant.  Breathes  fire.  Not  somebody  I’d

want barbecuing my daddy goat.”

Jason gave him a shut up look. “Piper, go on. What happened next?”
“I—I tried to reach my dad, but all I got was his personal assistant, and

she told me not to worry.”

“Jane?”  Leo  remembered.  “Didn’t  Medea  say  something  about

controlling her?”

Piper  nodded.  “To  get  my  dad  back,  I  had  to  sabotage  this  quest.  I
didn’t realize it would be the three of us. Then after we started the quest,
Enceladus sent me another warning: He told me he wanted you two dead.
He wants me to lead you to a mountain. I don’t know exactly which one,
but  it’s  in  the  Bay  Area—I  could  see  the  Golden  Gate  Bridge  from  the
summit.  I  have  to  be  there  by  noon  on  the  solstice,  tomorrow.  An
exchange.”

She couldn’t meet her friends’ eyes. She waited for them to yell at her,

or turn their backs, or kick her out into the snowstorm.

Instead,  Jason  scooted  next  to  her  and  put  his  arm  around  her  again.

“God, Piper. I’m so sorry.”

Leo  nodded.  “No  kidding.  You’ve  been  carrying  this  around  for  a

week? Piper, we could help you.”

She  glared  at  them.  “Why  don’t  you  yell  at  me  or  something?  I  was

ordered to kill you!”

“Aw,  come  on,”  Jason  said.  “You’ve  saved  us  both  on  this  quest.  I’d

put my life in your hands any day.”

“Same,” Leo said. “Can I have a hug too?”
“You don’t get it!” Piper said. “I’ve probably just killed my dad, telling

you this.”

“I  doubt  it.”  Coach  Hedge  belched.  He  was  eating  his  tofu  burger
folded  inside  the  paper  plate,  chewing  it  all  like  a  taco.  “Giant  hasn’t
gotten what he wants yet, so he still needs your dad for leverage. He’ll wait
until the deadline passes, see if you show up. He wants you to divert the
quest to this mountain, right?”
Piper nodded uncertainly.
“So that means Hera is being kept somewhere else,” Hedge reasoned.
“And she has to be saved by the same day. So you have to choose—rescue

your dad, or rescue Hera. If you go after Hera, then Enceladus  takes  care
of  your  dad.  Besides,  Enceladus  would  never  let  you  go  even  if  you
cooperated. You’re obviously one of the seven in the Great Prophecy.”

One  of  the  seven. She’d  talked  about  this  before  with  Jason  and  Leo,
and she supposed it must be true, but she still had trouble believing it. She
didn’t feel that important. She was just a stupid child of Aphrodite. How
could she be worth deceiving and killing?

“So we have no choice,” she said miserably. “We have to save Hera, or
the giant king gets unleashed. That’s our quest. The world depends on it.
And Enceladus seems to have ways of watching me. He isn’t stupid. He’ll
know if we change course and go the wrong way. He’ll kill my dad.”
“He’s not going to kill your dad,” Leo said. “We’ll save him.”
“We don’t have time!” Piper cried. “Besides, it’s a trap.”
“We’re your friends, beauty queen,” Leo said. “We’re not going to let

your dad die. We just gotta figure out a plan.”

Coach Hedge grumbled. “Would help if we knew where this mountain
was. Maybe Aeolus can tell you that. The Bay Area has a bad reputation
for  demigods.  Old  home  of  the  Titans,  Mount  Othrys,  sits  over  Mount
Tam,  where  Atlas  holds  up  the  sky.  I  hope  that’s  not  the  mountain  you
saw.”

Piper tried to remember the vista in her dreams. “I don’t think so. This

was inland.”

Jason frowned at the fire, like he was trying to remember something.
“Bad reputation … that doesn’t seem right. The Bay Area …”
“You think you’ve been there?” Piper asked.
“I  …”  He  looked  like  he  was  almost  on  the  edge  of  a  breakthrough.
Then  the  anguish  came  back  into  his  eyes.  “I  don’t  know.  Hedge,  what
happened to Mount Othrys?”

Hedge took another bite of paper and burger. “Well, Kronos built a new
palace there last summer. Big nasty place, was going to be the headquarters
for  his  new  kingdom  and  all.  Weren’t  any  battles  there,  though.  Kronos
marched on Manhattan, tried to take Olympus. If I remember right, he left
some other Titans in charge of his palace, but after Kronos got defeated in
Manhattan, the whole palace just crumbled on its own.”

“No,” Jason said.

Everyone looked at him.
“What do you mean, ‘No’?” Leo asked.
“That’s  not  what  happened.  I—”  He  tensed,  looking  toward  the  cave

entrance. “Did you hear that?”

For a second, nothing. Then Piper heard it: howls piercing the night.

“WOLVES,” PIPER SAID. “THEY SOUND CLOSE.”

Jason rose and summoned his sword. Leo and Coach Hedge got to their

feet too. Piper tried, but black spots danced before her eyes.

“Stay there,” Jason told her. “We’ll protect you.”
She  gritted  her  teeth.  She  hated  feeling  helpless.  She  didn’t  want
anyone to protect her. First the stupid ankle. Now stupid hypothermia. She
wanted to be on her feet, with her dagger in her hand.

Then,  just  outside  the  firelight  at  the  entrance  of  the  cave,  she  saw  a

pair of red eyes glowing in dark.

Okay, she thought. Maybe a little protection is fine.
More  wolves edged into the  firelight—black  beasts bigger  than  Great
Danes,  with  ice  and  snow  caked  on  their  fur.  Their  fangs  gleamed,  and
their  glowing  red  eyes  looked  disturbingly  intelligent.  The  wolf  in  front
was almost as tall as a horse, his mouth stained as if he’d just made a fresh
kill.

Piper pulled her dagger out of its sheath.
Then Jason stepped forward and said something in Latin.
Piper  didn’t  think  a  dead  language  would  have  much  effect  on  wild
animals, but the alpha wolf curled his lip. The fur stood up along his spine.
One of his lieutenants tried to advance, but the alpha wolf snapped at his
ear. Then all of the wolves backed into the dark.

“Dude, I gotta study Latin.” Leo’s hammer shook in his hand. “What’d

you say, Jason?”

Hedge cursed. “Whatever it was, it wasn’t enough. Look.”
The  wolves  were  coming  back,  but  the  alpha  wolf  wasn’t  with  them.
They  didn’t  attack.  They  waited—at  least  a  dozen  now,  in  a  rough
semicircle just outside the firelight, blocking the cave exit.

The coach hefted his club. “Here’s the plan. I’ll kill them all, and you

guys escape.”

“Coach, they’ll rip you apart,” Piper said.
“Nah, I’m good.”
Then  Piper  saw  the  silhouette  of  a  man  coming  through  the  storm,

wading through the wolf pack.

“Stick  together,”  Jason  said.  “They  respect  a  pack.  And  Hedge,  no

crazy stuff. We’re not leaving you or anyone else behind.”

Piper got a lump in her throat. She was the weak link in their “pack”
right now. No doubt the wolves could smell her fear. She might as well be
wearing a sign that said free lunch.

The wolves parted, and the man stepped into the firelight. His hair was
greasy and ragged, the color of fireplace soot, topped with a crown of what
looked  like  finger  bones.  His  robes  were  tattered  fur—wolf,  rabbit,
raccoon,  deer,  and  several  others  Piper  couldn’t  identify.  The  furs  didn’t
look  cured,  and  from  the  smell,  they  weren’t  very  fresh.  His  frame  was
lithe  and  muscular,  like  a  distance  runner’s.  But  the  most  horrible  thing
was his face. His thin pale skin was pulled tight over his skull. His teeth
were sharpened like fangs. His eyes glowed bright red like his wolves’—
and they fixed on Jason with absolute hatred.

“Ecce,” he said, “filli Romani.”
“Speak English, wolf man!” Hedge bellowed.
The  wolf  man  snarled.  “Tell  your  faun  to  mind  his  tongue,  son  of

Rome. Or he’ll be my first snack.”

Piper remembered that faun was the Roman name for satyr.Not exactly
helpful information. Now, if she could remember who this wolf guy was in
Greek mythology, and how to defeat him, that she could use.

The wolf man studied their little group. His nostrils twitched. “So it’s
true,” he mused. “A child of Aphrodite. A son of Hephaestus. A faun. And
a child of Rome, of Lord Jupiter, no less. All together, without killing each
other. How interesting.”

“You were told about us?” Jason asked. “By whom?”
The  man  snarled—perhaps  a  laugh,  perhaps  a  challenge.  “Oh,  we’ve
been patrolling  for  you all across  the  west, demigod, hoping  we’d  be the

first to find you. The giant king will reward me well when he rises. I am
Lycaon, king of the wolves. And my pack is hungry.”

The wolves snarled in the darkness.
Out of the corner of her eye, Piper saw Leo put up his hammer and slip

something else from his tool belt—a glass bottle full of clear liquid.

Piper racked her brain trying to place the wolf guy’s name. She knew

she’d heard it before, but she couldn’t remember details.

Lycaon  glared  at  Jason’s  sword.  He  moved  to  each  side  as  if  looking

for an opening, but Jason’s blade moved with him.

“Leave,” Jason ordered. “There’s no food for you here.”
“Unless you want tofu burgers,” Leo offered.
Lycaon bared his fangs. Apparently he wasn’t a tofu fan.
“If I had my way,” Lycaon said with regret, “I’d kill you first, son of
Jupiter. Your father made me what I am. I was the powerful mortal king of
Arcadia,  with  fifty  fine  sons,  and  Zeus  slew  them  all  with  his  lightning
bolts.”

“Ha,” Coach Hedge said. “For good reason!”
Jason glanced over his shoulder. “Coach, you know this clown?”
“I do,”  Piper  answered.  The  details  of  the  myth  came  back  to  her—a
short, horrible story she and her father had laughed at over breakfast. She
wasn’t laughing now.

“Lycaon invited Zeus to dinner,” she said. “But the king wasn’t sure it
was  really  Zeus.  So  to  test  his  powers,  Lycaon  tried  to  feed  him  human
flesh. Zeus got outraged—”

“And killed my sons!” Lycaon howled. The wolves behind him howled

too.

“So  Zeus  turned  him  into  a  wolf,”  Piper  said.  “They  call…  they  call

werewolves lycanthropes, named after him, the first werewolf.”

“The  king  of  wolves,”  Coach  Hedge  finished.  “An  immortal,  smelly,

vicious mutt.”

Lycaon growled. “I will tear you apart, faun!”
“Oh, you want some goat, buddy? ’Cause I’ll give you goat.”
“Stop  it,”  Jason  said.  “Lycaon,  you  said  you  wanted  to  kill  me  first,

but...?”

“Sadly,  Child  of  Rome,  you  are  spoken  for.  Since  this  one”—he
waggled his claws at Piper—“has failed to kill you, you are to be delivered
alive to the Wolf House. One of my compatriots has asked for the honor of
killing you herself.”

“Who?” Jason said.
The  wolf  king  snickered.  “Oh,  a  great  admirer  of  yours.  Apparently,
you  made  quite  an  impression  on  her.  She  will  take  care  of  you  soon
enough,  and  really  I  cannot  complain.  Spilling  your  blood  at  the  Wolf
House  should  mark  my  new  territory  quite  well.  Lupa  will  think  twice
about challenging my pack.”

Piper’s  heart  tried  to  jump  out  of  her  chest.  She  didn’t  understand
everything  Lycaon  had  said,  but  a  woman  who  wanted  to  kill  Jason?
Medea, she thought. Somehow, she must’ve survived the explosion.

Piper  struggled  to  her  feet.  Spots  danced  before  her  eyes  again.  The

cave seemed to spin.

“You’re going to leave now,” Piper said, “before we destroy you.”
She tried to put power into the words, but she was too weak. Shivering
in  her  blankets,  pale  and  sweaty  and  barely  able  to  hold  a  knife,  she
couldn’t have looked very threatening.

Lycaon’s red eyes crinkled with humor. “A brave try, girl.
I admire that. Perhaps I’ll make your end quick. Only the son of Jupiter

is needed alive. The rest of you, I’m afraid, are dinner.”

At that moment, Piper knew she was going to die. But at least she’d die

on her feet, fighting next to Jason.

Jason took a step forward. “You’re not killing anyone, wolf man. Not

without going through me.”

Lycaon howled and extended  his  claws. Jason slashed at  him, but  his

golden sword passed straight through as if the wolf king wasn’t there.

Lycaon  laughed.  “Gold,  bronze,  steel—none  of  these  are  any  good

against my wolves, son of Jupiter.”

“Silver!” Piper cried. “Aren’t werewolves hurt by silver?”
“We don’t have any silver!” Jason said.
Wolves leaped into the firelight. Hedge charged forward with an elated

“Woot!”

But  Leo  struck  first.  He  threw  his  glass  bottle  and  it  shattered  on  the
ground, splattering liquid all over the wolves—the unmistakable smell of
gasoline. He shot a burst of fire at the puddle, and a wall of flames erupted.
Wolves  yelped  and retreated. Several caught  fire and had to  run back
into the  snow. Even Lycaon looked  uneasily  at  the  barrier  of flames  now
separating his wolves from the demigods.

“Aw,  c’mon,”  Coach  Hedge  complained.  “I  can’t  hit  them  if  they’re

way over there.”

Every time a wolf came closer, Leo shot a new wave of fire from his
hands,  but  each  effort  seemed  to  make  him  a  little  more  tired,  and  the
gasoline  was  already  dying  down.  “I  can’t  summon  any  more  gas!”  Leo
warned. Then his face turned red. “Wow, that came out wrong. I mean the
burningkind. Gonna take the tool belt a while to recharge. What you got,
man?”

“Nothing,” Jason said. “Not even a weapon that works.”
“Lightning?” Piper asked.
Jason  concentrated,  but  nothing  happened.  “I  think  the  snowstorm  is

interfering, or something.”

“Unleash the venti!” Piper said.
“Then  we’ll  have  nothing  to  give  Aeolus,”  Jason  said.  “We’ll  have

come all this way for nothing.”

Lycaon  laughed.  “I  can  smell  your  fear.  A  few  more  minutes  of  life,
heroes. Pray to whatever gods you wish. Zeus did not grant me mercy, and
you will have none from me.”

The flames began to sputter out. Jason cursed and dropped his sword.
He crouched like he was ready to go hand-to-hand. Leo pulled his hammer
out of his pack. Piper raised her dagger—not much, but it was all she had.
Coach Hedge hefted his club, and he was the only one who looked excited
about dying.

Then  a  ripping  sound  cut  through  the  wind—like  a  piece  of  tearing
cardboard.  A  long  stick  sprouted  from  the  neck  of  the  nearest  wolf—the
shaft of a silver arrow. The wolf writhed and fell, melting into a puddle of
shadow.

More  arrows.  More  wolves  fell.  The  pack  broke  in  confusion.  An
arrow flashed toward Lycaon, but the wolf king caught it in midair. Then

he  yelled  in  pain.  When  he  dropped  the  arrow,  it  left  a  charred,  smoking
gash  across  his  palm.  Another  arrow  caught  him  in  the  shoulder,  and  the
wolf king staggered.

“Curse them!” Lycaon yelled. He growled at his pack, and the wolves
turned  and  ran.  Lycaon  fixed  Jason  with  those  glowing  red  eyes.  “This
isn’t over, boy.”

The wolf king disappeared into the night.
Seconds  later,  Piper  heard  more  wolves  baying,  but  the  sound  was
different—less threatening, more like hunting dogs on the scent. A smaller
white wolf burst into the cave, followed by two more.

Hedge said, “Kill it?”
“No!” Piper said. “Wait.”
The wolves tilted their heads and studied the campers with huge golden

eyes.

A heartbeat  later, their  masters  appeared: a troop  of hunters in  white-
and-gray  winter  camouflage,  at  least  half  a  dozen.  All  of  them  carried
bows, with quivers of glowing silver arrows on their backs.

Their  faces  were  covered  with  parka  hoods,  but  clearly  they  were  all
girls. One, a little taller than the rest, crouched in the firelight and snatched
up the arrow that had wounded Lycaon’s hand.

“So  close.”  She  turned  to  her  companions.  “Phoebe,  stay  with  me.
Watch  the  entrance.  The  rest  of  you,  follow  Lycaon.  We  can’t  lose  him
now. I’ll catch up with you.”

The other hunters mumbled agreement and disappeared, heading after

Lycaon’s pack.

The girl in white turned toward them, her face still hidden in her parka
hood.  “We’ve  been  following  that  demon’s  trail  for  over  a  week.  Is
everyone all right? No one got bit?”

Jason stood  frozen,  staring  at  the  girl.  Piper  realized  something about
her  voice  sounded  familiar.  It  was  hard  to  pin  down,  but  the  way  she
spoke, the way she formed her words, reminded her of Jason.

“You’re her,” Piper guessed. “You’re Thalia.”
The girl tensed. Piper was afraid she might draw her bow, but instead
she  pulled  down  her  parka  hood.  Her  hair  was  spiky  black,  with  a  silver
tiara  across  her  brow.  Her  face  had  a  super-healthy  glow  to  it,  as  if  she

were  a little more  than  human,  and her eyes were  brilliant  blue.  She was
the girl from Jason’s photograph.

“Do I know you?” Thalia asked.
Piper took a breath. “This might be a shock, but—”
“Thalia.” Jason stepped forward, his voice trembling. “I’m Jason, your

brother.”

LEO FIGURED HE HAD THE WORST LUCK in the group, and that was saying a
lot.  Why  didn’t  he get  to  have  the  long-lost  sister  or  the  movie  star  dad
who needed rescuing? All he got was a tool belt and a dragon that broke
down  halfway  through  the  quest.  Maybe  it  was  the  stupid  curse  of  the
Hephaestus cabin, but Leo didn’t think so. His life had been unlucky way
before he got to camp.

A thousand years from now, when this quest was being told around a
campfire, he figured people would talk about brave Jason, beautiful Piper,
and their sidekick Flaming Valdez, who accompanied them with a bag of
magic screwdrivers and occasionally fixed tofu burgers.

If that wasn’t bad enough, Leo fell in love with every girl he saw—as

long as she was totally out of his league.

When  he  first  saw  Thalia,  Leo  immediately  thought  she  was  way too
pretty to be Jason’s sister. Then he thought he’d better not say that or he’d
get  in  trouble.  He  liked  her  dark  hair,  her  blue  eyes,  and  her  confident
attitude. She looked like the kind of girl who could stomp anybody on the
ball court  or the  battlefield,  and wouldn’t give  Leo  the  time  of day—just
Leo’s type!

For a minute, Jason and Thalia faced each other, stunned. Then Thalia

rushed forward and hugged him.

“My gods! She told me you were dead!” She gripped Jason’s face and
seemed  to  be  examining  everything  about  it.  “Thank  Artemis,  it  is  you.
That little scar on your lip—you tried to eat a stapler when you were two!”

Leo laughed. “Seriously?”
Hedge nodded like he approved of Jason’s taste. “Staplers —excellent

source of iron.”

“W-wait,”  Jason  stammered.  “Who  told  you  I  was  dead?  What

happened?”

At  the  cave  entrance,  one  of  the  white  wolves  barked.  Thalia  looked
back at the wolf and nodded, but she kept her hands on Jason’s face, like
she was afraid he might vanish. “My wolf is telling me I don’t have much
time, and she’s right. But we have to talk. Let’s sit.”

Piper  did  better  than  that.  She  collapsed.  She  would’ve  cracked  her

head on the cave floor if Hedge hadn’t caught her.

Thalia rushed  over. “What’s wrong  with  her?  Ah—never  mind. I  see.
Hypothermia.  Ankle.”  She  frowned  at  the  satyr.  “Don’t  you  know  nature
healing?”

Hedge  scoffed.  “Why  do  you  think  she  looks  this  good?  Can’t  you

smell the Gatorade?”

Thalia  looked  at  Leo  for  the  first  time,  and  of  course  it  was  an
accusatory glare, like Why did you let the goat be a doctor? As if that was
Leo’s fault.

“You and the satyr,” Thalia ordered, “take this girl to my friend at the

entrance. Phoebe’s an excellent healer.”

“It’s cold out there!” Hedge said. “I’ll freeze my horns off.”
But  Leo  knew  when  they  weren’t  wanted.  “Come  on,  Hedge.  These

two need time to talk.”

“Humph.  Fine,”  the  satyr  muttered.  “Didn’t  even  get  to  brain

anybody.”

Hedge  carried  Piper  toward  the  entrance.  Leo  was  about  to  follow

when Jason called, “Actually, man, could you, um, stick around?”

Leo saw something in Jason’s eyes he didn’t expect: Jason was asking

for support. He wanted somebody else there. He was scared.

Leo grinned. “Sticking around is my specialty.”
Thalia didn’t look too happy about it, but the three of them sat at the
fire. For a few minutes, nobody spoke. Jason studied his sister like she was
a  scary  device—one  that  might  explode  if  handled  incorrectly.  Thalia
seemed more at ease, as if she was used to stumbling across stranger things
than  long-lost  relatives.  But  still  she  regarded  Jason  in  a  kind  of  amazed
trance, maybe remembering a little two-year-old who tried to eat a stapler.
Leo took a few pieces of copper wire out of his pockets and twisted them
together.

Finally  he  couldn’t  stand  the  silence.  “So  …  the  Hunters  of  Artemis.
This whole ‘not dating’ thing—is that like always, or more  of a seasonal
thing, or what?”

Thalia stared at him as if he’d just evolved from pond scum. Yeah, he

was definitely liking this girl.

Jason  kicked  him  in  the  shin.  “Don’t  mind  Leo.  He’s  just  trying  to
break the ice. But, Thalia … what happened to our family? Who told you I
was dead?”

Thalia  tugged  at  a  silver  bracelet  on  her  wrist.  In  the  firelight,  in  her
winter camouflage, she almost looked like Khione the snow princess—just
as cold and beautiful.

“Do you remember anything?” she asked.
Jason shook his head. “I woke up three days ago on a bus with Leo and

Piper.”

“Which  wasn’t  our  fault,”  Leo  added  hastily.  “Hera  stole  his

memories.”

Thalia tensed. “Hera? How do you know that?”
Jason explained about their quest—the prophecy at camp, Hera getting
imprisoned, the giant taking Piper’s dad, and the winter solstice deadline.
Leo  chimed  in  to  add  the  important  stuff:  how  he’d  fixed  the  bronze
dragon, could throw fireballs, and made excellent tacos.

Thalia  was  a  good  listener.  Nothing  seemed  to  surprise  her—the
monsters, the prophecies, the dead rising. But when Jason mentioned King
Midas, she cursed in Ancient Greek.

“I  knew  we  should’ve  burned  down  his  mansion,”  she  said.  “That
man’s  a  menace.  But  we  were  so  intent  on  following  Lycaon—Well,  I’m
glad you got away. So Hera’s been … what, hiding you all these years?”

“I don’t know.” Jason brought out the photo from his pocket. “She left

me just enough memory to recognize your face.”

Thalia looked at the picture, and her expression softened. “I’d forgotten

about that. I left it in Cabin One, didn’t I?”

Jason  nodded.  “I  think  Hera  wanted  for  us  to  meet.  When  we  landed
here, at this cave … I had a feeling it was important. Like I knew you were
close by. Is that crazy?”

“Nah,”  Leo  assured  him.  “We  were  absolutely  destined  to  meet  your

hot sister.”

Thalia ignored him. Probably she just didn’t want to let on how much

Leo impressed her.

“Jason,” she said, “when you’re dealing with the gods, nothing is  too
crazy.  But  you  can’t  trust  Hera,  especially  since  we’re  children  of  Zeus.
She hates all children of Zeus.”

“But  she  said  something  about  Zeus  giving  her  my  life  as  a  peace

offering. Does that make any sense?”

The  color  drained  from  Thalia’s  face.  “Oh,  gods.  Mother  wouldn’t

have … You don’t remember—No, of course you don’t.”

“What?” Jason asked.
Thalia’s  features  seemed  to  grow  older  in  the  firelight,  like  her
immortality  wasn’t  working  so  well.  “Jason  …  I’m  not  sure  how  to  say
this.  Our  mom  wasn’t  exactly  stable.  She  caught  Zeus’s  eye  because  she
was  a television  actress,  and she was beautiful,  but  she  didn’t  handle  the
fame well. She drank, pulled stupid stunts. She was always in the tabloids.
She could never get enough attention. Even before you were born, she and
I argued all the time. She … she knew Dad was Zeus, and I think that was
too  much  for  her  to  take.  It  was  like  the  ultimate  achievement  for  her  to
attract  the  lord  of  the  sky,  and  she  couldn’t  accept  it  when  he  left.  The
thing about the gods… well, they don’t hang around.”

Leo  remembered  his  own  mom,  the  way  she’d  assured  him  over  and
over that his dad would be back someday. But she’d never acted mad about
it.  She  didn’t  seem  to  want  Hephaestus  for  herself—only  so  Leo  could
know his father. She’d dealt with working a dead-end job, living in a tiny
apartment,  never  having  enough  money—and  she’d  seemed  fine  with  it.
As long as she had Leo, she always said, life would be okay.

He watched Jason’s face—looking more and more devastated as Thalia
described their mom—and for once, Leo didn’t feel jealous of his friend.
Leo might have lost his mom. He might have had some hard times. But at
least  he  remembered  her.  He  found  himself  tapping  out  a  Morse  code
message on his knee: Love you. He felt bad for Jason, not having memories
like that—not having anything to fall back on.

“So …” Jason didn’t seem able to finish the question.

“Jason, you got friends,” Leo told him. “Now you got a sister. You’re

not alone.”

Thalia offered her hand, and Jason took it.
“When I was about seven,” she said, “Zeus started visiting Mom again.
I  think  he  felt  bad  about  wrecking  her  life,  and  he  seemed—different
somehow. A little older and sterner, more fatherly toward me. For a while,
Mom  improved.  She  loved  having  Zeus  around,  bringing  her  presents,
causing  the  sky  to  rumble.  She  always  wanted  more  attention.  That’s  the
year you were born. Mom … well, I never got along with her, but you gave
me a reason to hang around. You were so cute.

And I didn’t trust Mom to look after you. Of course, Zeus eventually
stopped  coming  by  again.  He  probably  couldn’t  stand  Mom’s  demands
anymore,  always  pestering  him  to  let  her  visit  Olympus,  or  to  make  her
immortal or eternally beautiful. When he left for good, Mom got more and
more unstable. That was about the time the monsters started attacking me.
Mom blamed Hera. She claimed the goddess was coming after you too—
that Hera had barely tolerated my birth, but two demigod children from the
same  family  was  too  big  an  insult.  Mom  even  said  she  hadn’t  wanted  to
name you Jason, but Zeus insisted, as a way to appease Hera because the
goddess liked that name. I didn’t know what to believe.”

Leo  fiddled  with  his  copper  wires.  He  felt  like  an  intruder.  He
shouldn’t be listening to this, but it also made him feel like he was getting
to know Jason for the first time—like maybe being here now made up for
those  four  months  at  Wilderness  School,  when  Leo  had  just  imagined
they’d had a friendship.

“How did you guys get separated?” he asked.
Thalia  squeezed  her  brother’s  hand.  “If  I’d  known  you  were  alive  …
gods,  things  would’ve  been  so  different.  But  when  you  were  two,  Mom
packed us in the car for a family vacation. We drove up north, toward the
wine country, to this park she wanted to show us. I remember thinking it
was  strange  because  Mom  never  took  us  anywhere,  and  she  was  acting
super  nervous.  I  was  holding  your  hand,  walking  you  toward  this  big
building in the middle of the park, and …” She took a shaky breath. “Mom
told  me  to  go  back  to  the  car  and  get  the  picnic  basket.  I  didn’t  want  to
leave you alone with her, but it was only for a few minutes. When I came
back … Mom was kneeling on the stone steps, hugging herself and crying.

She  said—she  said  you  were  gone.  She  said  Hera  claimed  you  and  you
were as good as dead. I didn’t know what she’d done. I was afraid she’d
completely  lost  her  mind.  I  ran  all  over  the  place  looking  for  you,  but
you’d just vanished. She had to drag me away, kicking and screaming. For
the  next  few  days  I  was  hysterical.  I  don’t  remember  everything,  but  I
called  the  police  on  Mom  and  they  questioned  her  for  a  long  time.
Afterward, we fought. She told me I’d betrayed her, that I should support
her,  like  she was  the  only  one  who  mattered.  Finally  I  couldn’t  stand  it.
Your disappearance was the last straw. I ran away from home, and I never
went back, not even when Mom died a few years ago. I thought you were
gone forever. I never told anyone about you—not even Annabeth or Luke,
my two best friends. It was just too painful.”

“Chiron knew.” Jason’s voice sounded far away. “When I got to camp,

he took one look at me and said, ‘You should be dead.’”

“That doesn’t make sense,” Thalia insisted. “I never told him.”
“Hey,” Leo said. “Important thing is you’ve got each other now, right?

You two are lucky.”

Thalia  nodded.  “Leo’s  right.  Look  at  you.  You’re  my  age.  You’ve

grown up.”

“But where have I been?” Jason said. “How could I be missing all that

time? And the Roman stuff …”

Thalia frowned. “The Roman stuff?”
“Your brother speaks Latin,” Leo said. “He calls gods by their Roman
names,  and  he’s  got  tattoos.”  Leo  pointed  out  the  marks  on  Jason’s  arm.
Then  he  gave  Thalia  the  rundown  about  the  other  weird  stuff  that  had
happened:  Boreas  turning  into  Aquilon,  Lycaon  calling  Jason  a  “child  of
Rome,” and the wolves backing off when Jason spoke Latin to them.

Thalia plucked her bowstring. “Latin. Zeus sometimes spoke Latin, the
second time  he stayed  with  Mom.  Like  I  said,  he seemed different, more
formal.”

“You think he was in his Roman aspect?” Jason asked. “And that’s why

I think of myself as a child of Jupiter?”

“Possibly,”  Thalia  said.  “I’ve  never  heard  of  something  like  that
happening, but it might explain why you think in Roman terms, why you
can speak Latin rather than Ancient Greek. That would make you unique.

Still, it doesn’t explain how you’ve survived without Camp Half-Blood. A
child of Zeus, or Jupiter, or whatever you want to call him—you would’ve
been hounded by monsters. If you were on your own, you should’ve died
years  ago.  I  know  I wouldn’t  have  been  able  to  survive  without  friends.
You would’ve needed training, a safe haven—”

“He  wasn’t  alone,”  Leo  blurted  out.  “We’ve  heard  about  others  like

him.”

Thalia looked at him strangely. “What do you mean?”
Leo  told  her  about  the  slashed-up  purple  shirt  in  Medea’s  department
store,  and  the  story  the  Cyclopes  told  about  the  child  of  Mercury  who
spoke Latin.

“Isn’t there anywhere else for demigods?” Leo asked. “I mean besides
Camp  Half-Blood?  Maybe  some  crazy  Latin  teacher  has  been  abducting
children of the gods or something, making them think like Romans.”

As  soon  as  he  said  it,  Leo  realized  how  stupid  the  idea  sounded.
Thalia’s  dazzling  blue  eyes  studied  him  intently,  making  him  feel  like  a
suspect in a lineup.

“I’ve  been  all  over  the  country,”  Thalia  mused.  “I’ve  never  seen
evidence  of  a  crazy  Latin  teacher,  or  demigods  in  purple  shirts.  Still  …”
Her voice trailed off, like she’d just had a troubling thought.

“What?” Jason asked.
Thalia shook her head. “I’ll have to talk to the goddess. Maybe Artemis

will guide us.”

“She’s still talking to you?” Jason asked. “Most of the gods have gone

silent.”

“Artemis  follows  her  own  rules,”  Thalia  said.  “She  has  to  be  careful
not  to  let  Zeus  know,  but  she  thinks  Zeus  is  being  ridiculous  closing
Olympus. She’s the one who set us on the trail of Lycaon. She said we’d
find a lead to a missing friend of ours.”

“Percy Jackson,” Leo guessed. “The guy Annabeth is looking for.”
Thalia nodded, her face full of concern.
Leo wondered if anyone had ever looked that worried all the times he’d

disappeared. He kind of doubted it.

“So  what  would  Lycaon  have  to  do  with  it?”  Leo  asked.  “And  how

does it connect to us?”

“We  need  to  find  out  soon,”  Thalia  admitted.  “If  your  deadline  is

tomorrow, we’re wasting time. Aeolus could tell you—”

The white wolf appeared again at the doorway and yipped insistently.
“I  have  to  get  moving.”  Thalia  stood.  “Otherwise  I’ll  lose  the  other

Hunters’ trail. First, though, I’ll take you to Aeolus’s palace.”

“If  you  can’t,  it’s  okay,”  Jason  said,  though  he  sounded  kind  of

distressed.

“Oh,  please.”  Thalia  smiled  and  helped  him  up.  “I  haven’t  had  a
brother in years. I think I can stand a few minutes with you before you get
annoying. Now, let’s go!”

WHEN LEO SAW HOW WELL PIPER AND HEDGE were being treated, he was
thoroughly offended.

He’d imagined them freezing their hindquarters off in the snow, but the
Hunter  Phoebe  had  set  up  this  silver  tent  pavilion  thing  right  outside  the
cave. How she’d done it so fast, Leo had no idea, but inside was a kerosene
heater  keeping  them  toasty  warm  and  a  bunch  of  comfy  throw  pillows.
Piper looked back to normal, decked out in a new parka, gloves, and camo
pants  like  a  Hunter.  She  and  Hedge  and  Phoebe  were  kicking  back,
drinking hot chocolate.

“Oh, no way,” Leo said. “We’ve been sitting in a cave and you get the
luxury tent? Somebody give me hypothermia. I want hot chocolate and a
parka!”

Phoebe sniffed. “Boys,” she said, like it was the worst insult she could

think of.

“It’s  all  right,  Phoebe,”  Thalia  said.  “They’ll  need  extra  coats.  And  I

think we can spare some chocolate.”

Phoebe grumbled, but soon Leo and Jason were also dressed in silvery
winter  clothes  that  were  incredibly  lightweight  and  warm.  The  hot
chocolate was first-rate.

“Cheers!”  said  Coach  Hedge.  He  crunched  down  his  plastic  thermos

cup.

“That cannot be good for your intestines,” Leo said.
Thalia patted Piper on the back. “You up for moving?”
Piper  nodded.  “Thanks  to  Phoebe,  yeah.  You  guys  are  really  good  at

this wilderness survival thing. I feel like I could run ten miles.”

Thalia  winked  at  Jason.  “She’s  tough  for  a  child  of  Aphrodite.  I  like

this one.”

“Hey, I could run ten miles too,” Leo volunteered. “Tough Hephaestus

kid here. Let’s hit it.”

Naturally, Thalia ignored him.
It took Phoebe exactly six seconds to break camp, which Leo could not
believe. The tent self-collapsed into a square the size of a pack of chewing
gum. Leo wanted to ask her for the blueprints, but they didn’t have time.

Thalia  ran  uphill  through  the  snow,  hugging  a  tiny  little  path  on  the
side  of  the  mountain,  and  soon  Leo  was  regretting  trying  to  look  macho,
because the Hunters left him in the dust.

Coach Hedge leaped around like a happy mountain goat, coaxing them
on like he used to do on track days at school. “Come on, Valdez! Pick up
the pace! Let’s chant. I’ve got a girl in Kalamazoo—”

“Let’s not,” Thalia snapped.
So they ran in silence.
Leo  fell  in  next  to  Jason  at  the  back  of  the  group.  “How  you  doing,

man?”

Jason’s expression was enough of an answer: Not good.
“Thalia  takes  it  so  calmly,”  Jason  said.  “Like  it’s  no  big  deal  that  I
appeared.  I  didn’t  know  what  I  was  expecting,  but  …  she’s  not  like  me.
She seems so much more together.”

“Hey, she’s not fighting amnesia,” Leo said. “Plus, she’s had more time
to  get  used  to  this  whole  demigod  thing.  You  fight  monsters  and  talk  to
gods for a while, you probably get used to surprises.”

“Maybe,” Jason said. “I just wish I understood what happened when I

was two, why my mom got rid of me. Thalia ran away because of me.”

“Hey,  whatever’s  happened,  it  wasn’t  your  fault.  And  your  sister  is

pretty cool. She’s a lot like you.”

Jason took that in silence. Leo wondered if he’d said the right things.
He wanted to make Jason feel better, but this was way outside his comfort
zone.

Leo  wished  he  could  reach  inside  his  tool  belt  and  pick  just  the  right
wrench to fix Jason’s memory—maybe a little hammer—bonk the sticking
spot and make everything run right. That would be a lot easier than trying
to  talk  it  through.  Not  good  with  organic  life  forms.  Thanks  for  those
inherited traits, Dad.

He  was  so  lost  in  thought,  he  didn’t  realize  the  Hunters  had  stopped.
He  slammed  into  Thalia  and  nearly  sent  them  both  down  the  side  of  the
mountain the hard way. Fortunately, the Hunter was light on her feet. She
steadied them both, then pointed up.

“That,” Leo choked, “is a really large rock.”
They stood near the summit of Pikes Peak. Below them the world was
blanketed in clouds. The air was so thin, Leo could hardly breathe. Night
had set in, but a full moon shone and the stars were incredible. Stretching
out to the north and south, peaks of other mountains rose from the clouds
like islands—or teeth.

But the real show was above them. Hovering in the sky, about a quarter
mile away, was a massive free-floating island of glowing purple stone. It
was  hard  to  judge  its  size,  but  Leo  figured  it  was  at  least  as  wide  as  a
football stadium and just as tall. The sides were rugged cliffs, riddled with
caves, and every once in a while a gust of wind burst out with a sound like
a pipe organ blast. At the top of the rock, brass walls ringed some kind of a
fortress.

The  only  thing  connecting  Pikes  Peak  to  the  floating  island  was  a

narrow bridge of ice that glistened in the moonlight.

Then  Leo  realized  the  bridge  wasn’t  exactly  ice,  because  it  wasn’t
solid. As the winds changed direction, the bridge snaked around—blurring
and thinning, in some places even breaking into a dotted line like the vapor
trail of a plane.

“We’re not seriously crossing that,” Leo said.
Thalia  shrugged.  “I’m  not  a  big  fan  of  heights,  I’ll  admit.  But  if  you

want to get to Aeolus’s fortress, this is the only way.”

“Is the fortress always hanging there?” Piper asked. “How can people

not notice it sitting on top of Pikes Peak?”

“The  Mist,”  Thalia  said.  “Still,  mortals  do  notice  it  indirectly.  Some
days,  Pikes  Peak  looks  purple.  People  say  it’s  a  trick  of  the  light,  but
actually it’s the color of Aeolus’s palace, reflecting off the mountain face.”

“It’s enormous,” Jason said.
Thalia laughed. “You should see Olympus, little brother.”
“You’re serious? You’ve been there?”

Thalia grimaced as if it wasn’t a good memory. “We should go across

in two different groups. The bridge is fragile.”

“That’s reassuring,” Leo said. “Jason, can’t you just fly us up there?”
Thalia  laughed.  Then  she  seemed  to  realize  Leo’s  question  wasn’t  a

joke. “Wait … Jason, you can fly?”

Jason gazed up at the floating fortress. “Well, sort of. More like I can
control  the  winds.  But  the  winds  up  here  are  so  strong,  I’m  not  sure  I’d
want to try. Thalia, you mean … you can’t fly?”

For  a  second,  Thalia  looked  genuinely  afraid.  Then  she  got  her
expression under control. Leo realized she was a lot more scared of heights
than she was letting on.

“Truthfully,” she said, “I’ve never tried. Might be better if we stuck to

the bridge.”

Coach Hedge tapped the ice vapor trail with his hoof, then jumped onto
the bridge. Amazingly, it held his weight. “Easy! I’ll go first. Piper, come
on, girl. I’ll give you a hand.”

“No, that’s okay,” Piper started to say, but the coach grabbed her hand

and dragged her up the bridge.

When  they  were  about  halfway,  the  bridge  still  seemed  to  be  holding

them just fine.

Thalia turned to her Hunter friend. “Phoebe, I’ll be back soon. Go find

the others. Tell them I’m on my way.”

“You  sure?”  Phoebe  narrowed  her  eyes  at  Leo  and  Jason,  like  they

might kidnap Thalia or something.
“It’s fine,” Thalia promised.
Phoebe  nodded  reluctantly,  then  raced  down  the  mountain  path,  the

white wolves at her heels.

“Jason,  Leo,  just  be  careful  where  you  step,”  Thalia  said.  “It  hardly

ever breaks.”

“It hasn’t met me yet,” Leo muttered, but he and Jason led the way up

the bridge.

Halfway up, things went wrong, and of course it was Leo’s fault. Piper and
Hedge  had  already  made  it  safely  to  the  top  and  were  waving  at  them,
encouraging  them  to  keep  climbing,  but  Leo  got  distracted.  He  was

thinking about bridges—how he would design something way more stable
than  this  shifting  ice  vapor  business  if  this  were  his  palace.  He  was
pondering braces and support columns. Then a sudden revelation stopped
him in his tracks.

“Why do they have a bridge?” he asked.
Thalia  frowned.  “Leo,  this  isn’t  a  good  place  to  stop.  What  do  you

mean?”

“They’re wind spirits,” Leo said. “Can’t they fly?”
“Yes, but sometimes they need a way to connect to the world below.”
“So the bridge isn’t always here?” Leo asked.
Thalia  shook  her  head.  “The  wind  spirits  don’t  like  to  anchor  to  the
earth, but sometimes it’s necessary. Like now. They know you’re coming.”
Leo’s  mind  was  racing.  He  was  so  excited  he  could  almost  feel  his
body’s  temperature  rising.  He  couldn’t  quite  put  his  thoughts  into  words,
but he knew he was on to something important.

“Leo?” Jason said. “What are you thinking?”
“Oh, gods,” Thalia said. “Keep moving. Look at your feet.”
Leo shuffled backward. With horror, he realized his body temperature
really  was  rising,  just  as  it  had  years  ago  at  that  picnic  table  under  the
pecan  tree,  when  his  anger  had  gotten  away  from  him.  Now,  excitement
was causing the reaction. His pants steamed in the cold air. His shoes were
literally smoking, and the bridge didn’t like it. The ice was thinning.

“Leo, stop it,” Jason warned. “You’re going to melt it.”
“I’ll try,” Leo said. But his body was overheating on its own, running
as  fast  as  his  thoughts.  “Listen,  Jason,  what  did  Hera  call  you  in  that
dream? She called you a bridge.”

“Leo, seriously, cool down,” Thalia said. “I don’t what you’re talking

about, but the bridge is—”

“Just listen,” Leo insisted. “If Jason is a bridge, what’s he connecting?
Maybe  two  different  places  that  normally  don’t  get  along—like  the  air
palace and the  ground. You had to  be somewhere  before  this, right?  And
Hera said you were an exchange.”

“An exchange.” Thalia’s eyes widened. “Oh, gods.”
Jason frowned. “What are you two talking about?”

Thalia  murmured  something  like  a  prayer.  “I  understand  now  why
Artemis sent me here. Jason—she told me to hunt for Lycaon and I would
find a clue about Percy. You are the clue. Artemis wanted us to meet so I
could hear your story.”

“I  don’t  understand,”  he  protested.  “I  don’t  have  a  story.  I  don’t

remember anything.”

“But  Leo’s  right,”  Thalia  said.  “It’s  all  connected.  If  we  just  knew

where—”

Leo  snapped  his  fingers.  “Jason,  what  did  you  call  that  place  in  your

dream? That ruined house. The Wolf House?”

Thalia nearly choked. “The Wolf House? Jason, why didn’t you tell me

that! That’s where they’re keeping Hera?”
“You know where it is?” Jason asked.
Then the bridge dissolved. Leo would’ve fallen to his death, but Jason
grabbed his coat and pulled him to safety. The two of them scrambled up
the bridge, and when they turned, Thalia was on the other side of a thirty-
foot chasm. The bridge was continuing to melt.

“Go!” Thalia shouted, backing down the bridge as it crumbled. “Find
out where the giant is keeping Piper’s dad. Save him! I’ll take the Hunters
to the Wolf House and hold it until you can get there. We can do both!”

“But where is the Wolf House?” Jason shouted.
“You know where  it is,  little brother!”  She was  so far  away  now that
they  could  barely  hear  her  voice  over  the  wind.  Leo  was  pretty  sure  she
said: “I’ll see you there. I promise.”

Then she turned and raced down the dissolving bridge.
Leo  and  Jason  had  no  time  to  stand  around.  They  climbed  for  their
lives, the ice vapor thinning under their feet. Several times, Jason grabbed
Leo  and  used  the  winds  to  keep  them  aloft,  but  it  was  more  like  bungee
jumping than flying.

When they reached the floating island, Piper and Coach Hedge pulled
them  aboard  just  as  the  last  of  the  vapor  bridge  vanished.  They  stood
gasping for breath at the base of a stone stairway chiseled into the side of
the cliff, leading up to the fortress.

Leo looked back down. The top of Pikes Peak floated below them in a
sea  of  clouds,  but  there  was  no  sign  of  Thalia.  And  Leo  had  just  burned

their only exit.

“What  happened?”  Piper  demanded.  “Leo,  why  are  your  clothes

smoking?”

“I got a little heated,” he gasped. “Sorry, Jason. Honest. I didn’t—”
“It’s all right,” Jason said, but his expression was grim. “We’ve got less
than  twenty-four  hours  to  rescue  a  goddess  and  Piper’s  dad.  Let’s  go  see
the king of the winds.”

JASON  HAD  FOUND  HIS  SISTER  AND lost  her  in  less  than  an  hour.  As  they
climbed the cliffs of the floating island, he kept looking back, but Thalia
was gone.

Despite  what  she’d  said  about  meeting  him  again,  Jason  wondered.
She’d found a new family with the Hunters, and a new mother in Artemis.
She seemed so confident and comfortable with her life, Jason wasn’t sure
if  he’d  ever  be  part  of  it.  And  she  seemed  so  set  on  finding  her  friend
Percy. Had she ever searched for Jason that way?

Not fair, he told himself. She thought you were dead.
He  could  barely  tolerate  what  she’d  said  about  their  mom.  It  was
almost like Thalia had handed him a baby—a really loud, ugly baby—and
said,  Here,  this  is  yours.  Carry  it.  He  didn’t  want  to  carry  it.  He  didn’t
want  to  look  at  it  or  claim  it.  He  didn’t  want  to  know  that  he  had  an
unstable mother who’d gotten rid of him to appease a goddess. No wonder
Thalia had run away.

Then  he  remembered  the  Zeus  cabin  at  Camp  Half-Blood—that  tiny
little  alcove  Thalia  had  used  as  a  bunk,  out  of  sight  from  the  glowering
statue  of  the  sky  god.  Their  dad  wasn’t  much  of  a  bargain,  either.  Jason
understood why Thalia had renounced that part of her life too, but he was
still  resentful.  He  couldn’t  be  so  lucky.  He  was  left  holding  the  bag  —
literally.

The  golden  backpack  of  winds  was  strapped  over  his  shoulders.  The
closer  they  got  to  Aeolus’s  palace,  the  heavier  the  bag  got.  The  winds
struggled, rumbling and bumping around.

The only one who seemed in a good mood was Coach Hedge. He kept
bounding  up  the  slippery  staircase  and  trotting  back  down.  “Come  on,
cupcakes! Only a few thousand more steps!”

As  they  climbed, Leo and Piper  left  Jason in  his  silence.  Maybe they
could sense his bad mood. Piper kept glancing back, worried, as if he were
the one who’d almost died of hypothermia rather than she. Or maybe she
was thinking about Thalia’s idea. They’d told her what Thalia had said on
the bridge—how they could save both her dad and Hera—but Jason didn’t
really understand how they were going to do that, and he wasn’t sure if the
possibility had made Piper more hopeful or just more anxious.

Leo kept swatting his own legs, checking for signs that his pants were
on  fire.  He  wasn’t  steaming  anymore,  but  the  incident  on  the  ice  bridge
had  really  freaked  Jason  out.  Leo  hadn’t  seemed  to  realize  that  he  had
smoke  coming  out  his  ears  and  flames  dancing  through  his  hair.  If  Leo
started  spontaneously  combusting  every  time  he  got  excited,  they  were
going to have a tough time taking him anywhere. Jason imagined trying to
get food at a restaurant. I’ll have a cheeseburger and—Ahhh! My friend’s
on fire! Get me a bucket!

Mostly,  though,  Jason  worried  about  what  Leo  had  said.  Jason  didn’t
want  to  be  a  bridge,  or  an  exchange,  or  anything  else.  He  just  wanted  to
know  where  he’d  come  from.  And  Thalia  had  looked  so  unnerved  when
Leo  mentioned  the  burned-out  house  in  his  dreams—the  place  the  wolf
Lupa had told him was his starting point. How did Thalia know that place,
and why did she assume Jason could find it?

The  answer  seemed  close.  But  the  nearer  Jason  got  to  it,  the  less  it

cooperated, like the winds on his back.

Finally they arrived at the top of the island. Bronze walls marched all
the  way  around the  fortress  grounds, though  Jason couldn’t imagine who
would possibly attack this place. Twenty-foot-high gates opened for them,
and  a  road  of  polished  purple  stone  led  up  to  the  main  citadel—a  white-
columned rotunda, Greek style, like one of the monuments in Washington,
D.C.—except  for  the  cluster  of  satellite  dishes  and  radio  towers  on  the
roof.

“That’s bizarre,” Piper said.
“Guess  you  can’t  get  cable  on  a  floating  island,”  Leo  said.  “Dang,

check this guy’s front yard.”

The rotunda sat in the center of a quarter-mile circle. The grounds were
amazing in a scary way. They were divided into four sections like big pizza
slices, each one representing a season.

The  section  on  their  right  was  an  icy  waste,  with  bare  trees  and  a
frozen  lake.  Snowmen  rolled  across  the  landscape  as  the  wind  blew,  so
Jason wasn’t sure if they were decorations or alive.

To  their  left  was  an  autumn  park  with  gold  and  red  trees.  Mounds  of
leaves blew into patterns—gods, people, animals that ran after each other
before scattering back into leaves.

In  the  distance,  Jason  could  see  two  more  areas  behind  the  rotunda.
One  looked  like a green  pasture with  sheep made  out  of clouds.  The last
section was a desert where tumbleweeds scratched strange patterns in the
sand like Greek letters, smiley faces, and a huge advertisement that read:
watch aeolus nightly!

“One  section  for  each  of  the  four  wind  gods,”  Jason  guessed.  “Four

cardinal directions.”

“I’m  loving  that  pasture.”  Coach  Hedge  licked  his  lips.  “You  guys

mind—”

“Go ahead,” Jason said. He was actually relieved to send the satyr off.
It  would  be  hard  enough  getting  on  Aeolus’s  good  side  without  Coach
Hedge waving his club and screaming, “Die!”

While  the  satyr  ran  off  to  attack  springtime,  Jason,  Leo,  and  Piper
walked down the road to the steps of the palace. They passed through the
front  doors  into  a  white  marble  foyer  decorated  with  purple  banners  that
read olympian weather channel, and some that just read ow!

“Hello!” A woman floated up to them. Literally floated. She was pretty
in that elfish way Jason associated with nature spirits at Camp Half-Blood
—petite,  slightly  pointy  ears,  and  an  ageless  face  that  could’ve  been
sixteen  or  thirty.  Her  brown  eyes  twinkled  cheerfully.  Even  though  there
was  no  wind,  her  dark  hair  blew  in  slow  motion,  shampoo-commercial
style. Her white gown billowed around her like parachute material. Jason
couldn’t tell if she had feet, but if so, they didn’t touch the floor. She had a
white tablet computer in her hand. “Are you from Lord Zeus?” she asked.
“We’ve been expecting you.”

Jason tried to respond, but it was a little hard to think straight, because
he’d realized the woman was see-through. Her shape faded in and out like
she was made of fog.

“Are you a ghost?” he asked.

Right  away  he  knew  he’d  insulted  her.  The  smile  turned  into  a  pout.
“I’m  an  aura, sir. A  wind  nymph,  as  you  might  expect,  working  for  the
lord of the winds. My name is Mellie. We don’t have ghosts.”

Piper came to the rescue. “No, of course you don’t! My friend simply
mistook you for Helen of Troy, the most beautiful mortal of all time. It’s an
easy mistake.”

Wow, she was good. The compliment seemed a little over the top, but

Mellie the aura blushed. “Oh … well, then. So you are from Zeus?”

“Er,” Jason said, “I’m the son of Zeus, yeah.”
“Excellent! Please, right this way.” She led them through some security
doors  into  another  lobby,  consulting  her  tablet  as  she  floated.  She  didn’t
look  where  she  was  going,  but  apparently  it  didn’t  matter  as  she  drifted
straight  through  a  marble  column  with  no  problem.  “We’re  out  of  prime
time  now,  so  that’s  good,”  she  mused.  “I  can  fit  you  in  right  before  his
11:12 spot.”

“Um, okay,” Jason said.
The lobby was a pretty distracting place. Winds blasted around them,
so Jason felt like he was pushing through an invisible crowd. Doors blew
open and slammed by themselves.

The things Jason could see were just as bizarre. Paper airplanes of all
different  sizes  and  shapes  sped  around,  and  other  wind  nymphs,  aurai,
would occasionally pluck them out of the air, unfold and read them, then
toss them back into the air, where the planes would refold themselves and
keep flying.

An ugly creature fluttered past. She looked like a mix between an old
lady  and  a  chicken  on  steroids.  She  had  a  wrinkled  face  with  black  hair
tied in  a hairnet,  arms like a human  plus  wings like a chicken,  and a fat,
feathered body with talons for feet. It was amazing she could fly at all. She
kept drifting around and bumping into things like a parade balloon.
“Not an aura?” Jason asked Mellie as the creature wobbled by.
Mellie laughed. “That’s a harpy, of course. Our, ah, ugly stepsisters, I
suppose  you  would  say.  Don’t  you  have  harpies  on  Olympus?  They’re
spirits of violent gusts, unlike us aurai. We’re all gentle breezes.”

She batted her eyes at Jason.
“’Course you are,” he said.

“So,” Piper prompted, “you were taking us to see Aeolus?”
Mellie  led  them  through  a  set  of  doors  like  an  airlock.  Above  the

interior door, a green light blinked.

“We have a few minutes before he starts,” Mellie said cheerfully. “He

probably won’t kill you if we go in now. Come along!”

JASON’S JAW  DROPPED. THE CENTRAL  SECTION of Aeolus’s fortress was as
big as a cathedral, with a soaring domed roof covered in silver. Television
equipment  floated  randomly  through  the  air—cameras,  spotlights,  set
pieces,  potted  plants.  And  there  was  no  floor.  Leo  almost  fell  into  the
chasm before Jason pulled him back.

“Holy—!” Leo gulped. “Hey, Mellie. A little warning next time!”
An enormous circular pit plunged into the heart of the mountain. It was
probably half a mile deep, honeycombed with caves. Some of the tunnels
probably led straight outside. Jason remembered seeing winds blast out of
them when they’d been on Pikes Peak. Other caves were sealed with some
glistening  material  like  glass  or  wax.  The  whole  cavern  bustled  with
harpies, aurai,  and  paper  airplanes,  but  for  someone  who  couldn’t  fly,  it
would be a very long, very fatal fall.

“Oh, my,” Mellie gasped. “I’m so sorry.” She unclipped a walkie-talkie
from  somewhere  inside  her  robes  and  spoke  into  it:  “Hello,  sets?  Is  that
Nuggets?  Hi,  Nuggets.  Could  we  get  a  floor  in  the  main  studio,  please?
Yes, a solid one. Thanks.”

A few seconds later, an army of harpies rose from the pit—three dozen
or  so  demon  chicken  ladies,  all  carrying  squares  of  various  building
material.  They  went  to  work  hammering  and  gluing—and  using  large
quantities of duct tape, which didn’t reassure Jason. In no time there was a
makeshift  floor  snaking  out  over  the  chasm.  It  was  made  of  plywood,
marble blocks, carpet squares, wedges of grass sod—just about anything.

“That can’t be safe,” Jason said.
“Oh, it is!” Mellie assured him. “The harpies are very good.”
Easy for her to say. She just drifted across without touching the floor,
but Jason decided he had the best chance at surviving, since he could fly,

so he stepped out first. Amazingly, the floor held.

Piper  gripped  his  hand  and  followed  him.  “If  I  fall,  you’re  catching

me.”

“Uh, sure.” Jason hoped he wasn’t blushing.
Leo stepped out next. “You’re catching me, too, Superman. But I ain’t

holding your hand.”

Mellie  led  them  toward  the  middle  of  the  chamber,  where  a  loose
sphere of flat-panel video screens floated around a kind of control center.
A  man  hovered  inside,  checking  monitors  and  reading  paper  airplane
messages.

The man paid them no attention as Mellie brought them forward. She
pushed  a  forty-two-inch  Sony  out  of  their  way  and  led  them  into  the
control area.

Leo whistled. “I got to get a room like this.”
The  floating  screens  showed  all  sorts  of  television  programs.  Some
Jason recognized—news broadcasts, mostly—but some programs looked a
little strange: gladiators fighting, demigods battling monsters. Maybe they
were movies, but they looked more like reality shows.

At  the  far  end  of  the  sphere  was  a  silky  blue  backdrop  like  a  cinema

screen, with cameras and studio lights floating around it.

The  man  in  the  center  was  talking  into  an  earpiece  phone.  He  had  a
remote  control  in  each  hand  and  was  pointing  them  at  various  screens,
seemingly at random.

He  wore  a  business  suit  that  looked  like  the  sky—blue  mostly,  but
dappled  with  clouds  that  changed  and  darkened  and  moved  across  the
fabric. He looked like he was in his sixties, with a shock of white hair, but
he had a ton of stage makeup on, and that smooth plastic-surgery look to
his face, so he appeared not really young, not really old, just wrong—like a
Ken  doll  someone  had  halfway  melted  in  a  microwave.  His  eyes  darted
back  and  forth  from  screen  to  screen,  like  he  was  trying  to  absorb
everything at once. He muttered things into his phone, and his mouth kept
twitching. He was either amused, or crazy, or both.

Mellie floated toward him. “Ah, sir, Mr. Aeolus, these demigods—”
“Hold it!” He held up a hand to silence her, then pointed at one of the

screens. “Watch!”

It was one of those storm-chaser programs, where insane thrill-seekers
drive  after  tornados.  As  Jason  watched,  a  Jeep  plowed  straight  into  a
funnel cloud and got tossed into the sky.

Aeolus shrieked with delight. “The Disaster Channel. People do that on
purpose!”  He  turned  toward  Jason  with  a  mad  grin.  “Isn’t  that  amazing?
Let’s watch it again.”

“Um, sir,” Mellie said, “this is Jason, son of—”
“Yes, yes, I remember,” Aeolus said. “You’re back. How did it go?”
Jason hesitated. “Sorry? I think you’ve mistaken me—”
“No, no, Jason Grace, aren’t you? It was—what—last year? You were

on your way to fight a sea monster, I believe.”

“I—I don’t remember.”
Aelous laughed. “Must not have been a very good sea monster! No, I
remember every hero who’s ever come to me for aid. Odysseus—gods, he
docked  at  my  island  for  a  month!  At  least  you  only  stayed  a  few  days.
Now, watch this video. These ducks get sucked straight into—”

“Sir,” Mellie interrupted. “Two minutes to air.”
“Air!” Aeolus exclaimed. “I love air. How do I look? Makeup!”
Immediately  a  small  tornado  of  brushes,  blotters,  and  cotton  balls
descended on Aeolus. They blurred across his face in a cloud of flesh-tone
smoke  until  his  coloration  was  even  more  gruesome  than  before.  Wind
swirled through his hair and left it sticking up like a frosted Christmas tree.
“Mr. Aeolus.” Jason slipped off the golden backpack. “We brought you

these rogue storm spirits.”

“Did  you!”  Aeolus  looked  at  the  bag  like  it  was  a  gift  from  a  fan—

something he really didn’t want. “Well, how nice.”

Leo nudged him, and Jason offered the bag. “Boreas sent us to capture
them for you. We hope you’ll accept them and stop—you know—ordering
demigods to be killed.”

Aeolus  laughed,  and  looked  incredulously  at  Mellie.  “Demigods  be

killed—did I order that?”

Mellie checked  her computer  tablet. “Yes, sir, fifteenth  of September.
‘Storm  spirits  released  by  the  death  of  Typhon,  demigods  to  be  held
responsible,’ etc… yes, a general order for them all to be killed.”

“Oh,  pish,”  Aeolus  said.  “I  was  just  grumpy.  Rescind  that  order,
Mellie,  and  um,  who’s  on  guard  duty—Teriyaki?—Teri,  take  these  storm
spirits down to cell block Fourteen E, will you?”

A  harpy  swooped  out  of  nowhere,  snatched  the  golden  bag,  and

spiraled into the abyss.

Aeolus grinned at Jason. “Now, sorry about that kill-on-sight business.
But gods, I really was mad, wasn’t I?” His face suddenly darkened, and his
suit  did  the  same,  the  lapels  flashing  with  lightning.  “You  know  …  I
remember  now.  Almost  seemed  like  a  voice  was  telling  me  to  give  that
order. A little cold tingle on the back of my neck.”

Jason  tensed.  A  cold  tingle  on  the  back  of  his  neck  …  Why  did  that

sound so familiar? “A … um, voice in your head, sir?”
“Yes. How odd. Mellie, should we kill them?”
“No,  sir,”  she  said  patiently.  “They  just  brought  us  the  storm  spirits,

which makes everything all right.”

“Of  course.”  Aeolus  laughed.  “Sorry.  Mellie,  let’s  send  the  demigods

something nice. A box of chocolates, perhaps.”

“A box of chocolates to every demigod in the world, sir?”
“No, too expensive. Never mind. Wait, it’s time! I’m on!”
Aeolus  flew  off  toward  the  blue  screen  as  newscast  music  started  to

play.

Jason looked at Piper and Leo, who seemed just as confused as he was.
“Mellie,” he said, “is he … always like that?”
She  smiled  sheepishly.  “Well,  you  know  what  they  say.  If  you  don’t
like his mood, wait five minutes. That expression ‘whichever way the wind
blows’—that was based on him.”

“And  that  thing  about  the  sea  monster,”  Jason  said.  “Was  I  here

before?”

Mellie  blushed.  “I’m  sorry,  I  don’t  remember.  I’m  Mr.  Aeolus’s  new

assistant. I’ve been with him longer than most, but still—not that long.”

“How long do his assistants usually last?” Piper asked. “
Oh  …”  Mellie  thought  for  a  moment.  “I’ve  been  doing  this  for  …

twelve hours?”

A  voice  blared  from  floating  speakers:  “And  now,  weather  every
twelve  minutes!  Here’s  your  forecaster  for  Olympian  Weather—the  OW!
channel—Aeolus!”

Lights  blazed  on  Aeolus,  who  was  now  standing  in  front  of  the  blue
screen.  His  smile  was  unnaturally  white,  and  he  looked  like  he’d  had  so
much caffeine his face was about to explode.

“Hello,  Olympus!  Aeolus,  master  of  the  winds  here,  with  weather
every  twelve!  We’ll  have  a  low-pressure  system  moving  over  Florida
today,  so  expect  milder  temperatures  since  Demeter  wishes  to  spare  the
citrus  farmers!”  He  gestured  at  the  blue  screen,  but  when  Jason  checked
the  monitors,  he  saw  that  a  digital  image  was  being  projected  behind
Aeolus,  so  it  looked  like  he  was  standing  in  front  of  a  U.S.  map  with
animated  smiley  suns  and  frowny  storm  clouds.  “Along  the  eastern
seaboard—oh, hold on.” He tapped his earpiece. “Sorry, folks! Poseidon is
angry  with  Miami  today,  so  it  looks  like  that  Florida  freeze  is  back  on!
Sorry,  Demeter.  Over  in  the  Midwest,  I’m  not  sure  what  St.  Louis  did  to
offend  Zeus,  but  you  can  expect  winter  storms!  Boreas  himself  is  being
called  down  to  punish  the  area  with  ice.  Bad  news,  Missouri!  No,  wait.
Hephaestus  feels  sorry  for  central  Missouri,  so  you  all  will  have  much
more moderate temperatures and sunny skies.”

Aeolus kept going like that—forecasting each area of the country and
changing  his  prediction  two  or  three  times  as  he  got  messages  over  his
earpiece—the  gods  apparently  putting  in  orders  for  various  winds  and
weather.

“This can’t be right,” Jason whispered. “Weather isn’t this random.”
Mellie  smirked.  “And  how  often  are  the  mortal  weathermen  right?
They  talk  about  fronts  and  air  pressure  and  moisture,  but  the  weather
surprises  them  all  the  time.  At  least  Aeolus  tells  us  why  it’s  so
unpredictable.  Very  hard  job,  trying  to  appease  all  the  gods  at  once.  It’s
enough to drive anyone …”

She  trailed  off,  but  Jason  knew  what  she  meant.  Mad.  Aeolus  was

completely mad.

“And  that’s  the  weather,”  Aeolus  concluded.  “See  you  in  twelve

minutes, because I’m sure it’ll change!”

The lights shut off, the video monitors went back to random coverage,
and  just  for  a  moment,  Aeolus’s  face  sagged  with  weariness.  Then  he

seemed to remember he had guests, and he put a smile back on.

“So,  you  brought  me  some  rogue  storm  spirits,”  Aeolus  said.  “I
suppose  …  thanks!  And  did  you  want  something  else?  I  assume  so.
Demigods always do.”

Mellie said, “Um, sir, this is Zeus’s son.”
“Yes, yes. I know that. I said I remembered him from before.”
“But, sir, they’re here from Olympus.”
Aeolus  looked  stunned.  Then  he  laughed  so  abruptly,  Jason  almost
jumped  into  the  chasm.  “You  mean  you’re  here  on  behalf  of  your  father
this  time?  Finally!  I  knew  they  would  send  someone  to  renegotiate  my
contract!”

“Um, what?” Jason asked.
“Oh, thank goodness!” Aeolus sighed with relief. “It’s been what, three
thousand  years  since  Zeus  made  me  master  of  the  winds.  Not  that  I’m
ungrateful, of course! But really, my contract is so vague. Obviously I’m
immortal, but ‘master of the winds.’ What does that mean? Am I a nature
spirit?  A  demigod?  A  god?  I  want  to  be  god  of  the  winds,  because  the
benefits are so much better. Can we start with that?”

Jason looked at his friends, mystified.
“Dude,” Leo said, “you think we’re here to promote you?”
“You are,  then?”  Aeolus grinned.  His business suit turned  completely
blue—not  a  cloud  in  the  fabric.  “Marvelous!  I  mean,  I  think  I’ve  shown
quite a bit of initiative with the weather channel, eh? And of course I’m in
the  press  all  the  time.  So  many  books  have  been  written  about  me:  Into
Thin Air, Up in the Air, Gone with the Wind—”

“Er,  I  don’t  think  those  are  about  you,”  Jason  said,  before  he  noticed

Mellie shaking her head.

“Nonsense,”  Aeolus  said.  “Mellie,  they’re  biographies  of  me,  aren’t

they?”

“Absolutely, sir,” she squeaked.
“There,  you  see?  I  don’t  read.  Who  has  time?  But  obviously  the
mortals  love  me.  So,  we’ll  change  my  official  title  to  god  of  the  winds.
Then, about salary and staff—”

“Sir,” Jason said, “we’re not from Olympus.”

Aeolus blinked. “But—”
“I’m the son of Zeus, yes,” Jason said, “but we’re not here to negotiate

your contract. We’re on a quest and we need your help.”

Aeolus’s  expression  hardened.  “Like  last  time?  Like  every  hero  who

comes here? Demigods! It’s always about you, isn’t it?”

“Sir,  please,  I  don’t  remember  last  time,  but  if  you  helped  me  once

before—”

“I’m always helping! Well, sometimes I’m destroying, but mostly I’m
helping,  and  sometimes  I’m  asked  to  do  both  at  the  same  time!  Why,
Aeneas, the first of your kind—”

“My kind?” Jason asked. “You mean, demigods?”
“Oh, please!” Aeolus said. “I mean your line of demigods. You know,
Aeneas, son of Venus—the only surviving hero of Troy. When the Greeks
burned down his city, he escaped to Italy, where he founded the kingdom
that  would  eventually  become  Rome,  blah,  blah,  blah.  That’s  what  I
meant.”

“I don’t get it,” Jason admitted.
Aeolus rolled his eyes. “The point being, I was thrown in the middle of
that  conflict,  too!  Juno  calls  up:  ‘Oh,  Aeolus,  destroy  Aeneas’s  ships  for
me.  I  don’t  like  him.’  Then  Neptune  says,  ‘No,  you  don’t!  That’s  my
territory. Calm the winds.’ Then Juno is like, ‘No, wreck his ships, or I’ll
tell Jupiter you’re uncooperative!’ Do you think it’s easy juggling requests
like that?”

“No,” Jason said. “I guess not.”
“And  don’t  get  me  started  on  Amelia  Earhart!  I’m  still getting  angry

calls from Olympus about knocking her out of the sky!”

“We just want information,” Piper said in her most calming voice. “We

hear you know everything.”

Aeolus straightened his lapels and looked slightly mollified. “Well …
that’s  true,  of  course.  For  instance,  I  know  that  this  business  here”—he
waggled  his  fingers  at  the  three  of  them—“this  harebrained  scheme  of
Juno’s to bring you all together is likely to end in bloodshed. As for you,
Piper  McLean,  I  know  your  father  is  in  serious  trouble.”  He  held  out  his
hand, and a scrap of paper fluttered into his grasp. It was a photo of Piper

with  a  guy  who  must’ve  been  her  dad.  His  face  did look  familiar.  Jason
was pretty sure he’d seen him in some movies.

Piper took the photo. Her hands were shaking. “This—this is from his

wallet.”

“Yes,” Aeolus said. “All things lost in the wind eventually come to me.

The photo blew away when the Earthborn captured him.”

“The what?” Piper asked.
Aeolus waved aside the question and narrowed his eyes at Leo. “Now,
you, son of Hephaestus … yes, I see your future.” Another paper fell into
the wind god’s hands—an old tattered drawing done in crayons.

Leo took it as if it might be coated in poison. He staggered backward.
“Leo?” Jason said. “What is it?”
“Something I—I drew when I was a kid.” He folded it quickly and put

it in his coat. “It’s … yeah, it’s nothing.”

Aeolus  laughed.  “Really?  Just  the  key  to  your  success!  Now,  where
were  we?  Ah,  yes,  you  wanted  information.  Are  you  sure  about  that?
Sometimes information can be dangerous.”

He smiled at Jason like he was issuing a challenge. Behind him, Mellie

shook her head in warning.

“Yeah,” Jason said. “We need to find the lair of Enceladus.”
Aeolus’s smile melted. “The giant? Why would you want to go there?

He’s horrible! He doesn’t even watch my program!”

Piper held up the photo. “Aeolus, he’s got my father. We need to rescue

him and find out where Hera is being held captive.”

“Now,  that’s  impossible,”  Aeolus  said.  “Even  I  can’t  see  that,  and
believe me, I’ve tried. There’s a veil of magic over Hera’s location—very
strong, impossible to locate.”

“She’s at a place called the Wolf House,” Jason said.
“Hold on!” Aelous put a hand to his forehead and closed his eyes. “I’m
getting  something!  Yes,  she’s  at  a  place  called  the  Wolf  House!  Sadly,  I
don’t know where that is.”

“Enceladus does,” Piper persisted. “If you help us find him, we could

get the location of the goddess—”

“Yeah,”  Leo  said,  catching  on.  “And  if  we  save  her,  she’d  be  really

grateful to you—”

“And Zeus might promote you,” Jason finished.
Aeolus’s eyebrows crept up. “A promotion—and all you want from me

is the giant’s location?”

“Well, if you could get us there, too,” Jason amended, “that would be

great.”

Mellie  clapped  her  hands  in  excitement.  “Oh,  he  could  do  that!  He

often sends helpful winds—”

“Mellie,  quiet!”  Aeolus  snapped.  “I  have  half  a  mind  to  fire  you  for

letting these people in under false pretenses.”
Her face paled. “Yes, sir. Sorry, sir.”
“It wasn’t her fault,” Jason said. “But about that help …”
Aelous tilted his head as if thinking. Then Jason realized the wind lord

was listening to voices in his earpiece.

“Well  …  Zeus  approves,”  Aeolus  muttered.  “He  says  …  he  says  it
would  be  better  if  you  could  avoid  saving  her  until  after  the  weekend,
because he has a big party planned—Ow! That’s Aphrodite yelling at him,
reminding him that the solstice starts at dawn. She says I should help you.
And Hephaestus… yes. Hmm. Very rare they agree on anything. Hold on
…”

Jason smiled at his friends. Finally, they were having some good luck.

Their godly parents were standing up for them.

Back  toward  the  entrance,  Jason  heard  a  loud  belch.  Coach  Hedge
waddled in from the lobby, grass all over his face. Mellie saw him coming
across the makeshift floor and caught her breath. “Who is that?”

Jason  stifled  a  cough.  “That?  That’s  just  Coach  Hedge.  Uh,  Gleeson
Hedge.  He’s  our  …”  Jason  wasn’t  sure  what  to  call  him:  teacher,  friend,
problem?

“Our guide.”
“He’s so goatly,” Mellie murmured.
Behind her, Piper poofed out her cheeks, pretending to vomit.
“What’s  up,  guys?”  Hedge  trotted  over.  “Wow,  nice  place.  Oh!  Sod

squares.”

“Coach, you just ate,” Jason said. “And we’re using the sod as a floor.

This is, ah, Mellie—”

“An aura.” Hedge smiled winningly. “Beautiful as a summer breeze.”
Mellie blushed.
“And Aeolus here was just about to help us,” Jason said.
“Yes,” the wind lord muttered. “It seems so. You’ll find Enceladus on

Mount Diablo.”

“Devil Mountain?” Leo asked. “That doesn’t sound good.”
“I remember that place!” Piper said. “I went there once with my dad.

It’s just east of San Francisco Bay.”

“The  Bay  Area  again?”  The  coach  shook  his  head.  “Not  good.  Not

good at all.”

“Now …” Aeolus began to smile. “As to getting you there—”
Suddenly his face went slack. He bent over and tapped his earpiece as
if it were malfunctioning. When he straightened again, his eyes were wild.
Despite  the  makeup,  he  looked  like  an  old  man—an  old,  very  frightened
man.  “She  hasn’t  spoke  to  me  for  centuries.  I  can’t—yes,  yes  I
understand.”

He  swallowed,  regarding  Jason  as  if  he  had  suddenly  turned  into  a
giant  cockroach.  “I’m  sorry,  son  of  Jupiter.  New  orders.  You  all  have  to
die.”

Mellie  squeaked.  “But—but,  sir!  Zeus  said  to  help  them.  Aphrodite,

Hephaestus—”

“Mellie!”  Aeolus  snapped.  “Your  job  is  already  on  the  line.  Besides,
there  are  some  orders  that  transcend  even  the  wishes  of  the  gods,
especially when it comes to the forces of nature.”

“Whose orders?” Jason said. “Zeus will fire you if you don’t help us!”
“I doubt it.” Aeolus flicked his wrist, and far below them, a cell door
opened  in  the  pit.  Jason  could  hear  storm  spirits  screaming  out  of  it,
spiraling up toward them, howling for blood.

“Even Zeus understands the order of things,” Aeolus said. “And if she
is waking—by all the gods—she cannot be denied. Good-bye, heroes. I’m
terribly sorry, but I’ll have to make this quick. I’m back on the air in four
minutes.”

Jason summoned his sword. Coach Hedge pulled out his club. Mellie

the aura yelled, “No!”

She dived at their feet just as the storm spirits hit with hurricane force,
blasting the floor to pieces, shredding the carpet samples and marble and
linoleum  into  what  should’ve  been  lethal  projectiles,  had  Mellie’s  robes
not spread out like a shield and absorbed the brunt of the impact. The five
of  them  fell  into  the  pit,  and  Aeolus  screamed  above  them,  “Mellie,  you
are so fired!”

“Quick,” Mellie yelled. “Son of Zeus, do you have any power over the

air?”

“A little!”
“Then  help  me,  or  you’re  all  dead!”  Mellie  grabbed  his  hand,  and  an
electric charge went through Jason’s arm. He understood what she needed.
They  had  to  control  their  fall  and  head  for  one  of  the  open  tunnels.  The
storm  spirits  were  following  them  down,  closing  rapidly,  bringing  with
them a cloud of deadly shrapnel.

Jason grabbed Piper’s hand. “Group hug!”
Hedge,  Leo,  and  Piper  tried  to  huddle  together,  hanging  on  to  Jason

and Mellie as they fell.

“This is NOT GOOD!” Leo yelled.
“Bring  it  on,  gas  bags!”  Hedge  yelled  up  at  the  storm  spirits.  “I’ll

pulverize you!”

“He’s magnificent,” Mellie sighed.
“Concentrate?” Jason prompted.
“Right!” she said.
They channeled the wind so their fall became more of a tumble into the
nearest open chute. Still, they slammed into the tunnel at painful speed and
went rolling over each other down a steep vent that was not designed for
people. There was no way they could stop.

Mellie’s robes  billowed around her. Jason and the  others clung  to  her
desperately,  and  they  began  to  slow  down,  but  the  storm  spirits  were
screaming into the tunnel behind them.

“Can’t—hold—long,” Mellie warned. “Stay together! When the winds

hit—”

“You’re  doing  great,  Mellie,”  Hedge  said.  “My  own  mama  was  an

aura, you know. She couldn’t have done better herself.”

“Iris-message me?” Mellie pleaded.
Hedge winked.
“Could you guys plan your date later?” Piper screamed. “Look!”
Behind them, the tunnel was turning dark. Jason could feel his ears pop

as the pressure built.

“Can’t hold them,” Mellie warned. “But I’ll try to shield you, do you

one more favor.”

“Thanks, Mellie,” Jason said. “I hope you get a new job.”
She  smiled,  and  then  dissolved,  wrapping  them  in  a  warm  gentle
breeze. Then the real winds hit, shooting them into the sky so fast, Jason
blacked out.

PIPER DREAMED SHE WAS ON THE Wilderness School dorm roof.

The desert night was cold, but she’d brought blankets, and with Jason

next to her, she didn’t need any more warmth.

The  air  smelled  of  sage  and  burning  mesquite.  On  the  horizon,  the
Spring  Mountains  loomed  like  jagged  black  teeth,  the  dim  glow  of  Las
Vegas behind them.

The stars were so bright, Piper had been afraid they wouldn’t be able to
see the meteor shower. She didn’t want Jason to think she’d dragged him
up  here  on  false  pretenses.  (Even  though  her  pretenses  had  been  totally
false.)  But  the  meteors  did  not  disappoint.  One  streaked  across  the  sky
almost every minute—a line of white, yellow, or blue fire. Piper was sure
her Grandpa Tom would have some Cherokee myth to explain them, but at
the moment she was busy creating her own story.

Jason  took  her  hand—finally—and  pointed  as  two  meteors  skipped

across the atmosphere and formed a cross.

“Wow,” he said. “I can’t believe Leo didn’t want to see this.”
“Actually, I didn’t invite him,” Piper said casually.
Jason smiled. “Oh, yeah?”
“Mm-hmm. You ever feel like three would be a crowd?”
“Yeah,” Jason admitted. “Like right now. You know how much trouble

we’d get in if we got caught up here?”

“Oh, I’d make up something,” Piper said. “I can be very persuasive. So

you want to dance, or what?”

He laughed. His eyes were amazing, and his smile was even better in

the starlight. “With no music. At night. On a rooftop. Sounds dangerous.”

“I’m a dangerous girl.”
“That, I can believe.”

He stood and offered her his hand. They slow danced a few steps, but it
quickly  turned  into  a  kiss.  Piper  almost  couldn’t  kiss  him  again,  because
she was too busy smiling.

Then  her  dream  changed—or  maybe  she  was  dead  in  the  Underworld—
because she found herself back in Medea’s department store.

“Please  let  this  be  a  dream,”  she  murmured,  “and  not  my  eternal

punishment.”

“No, dear,” said a woman’s honey-sweet voice. “No punishment.”
Piper turned, afraid she’d see Medea, but a different woman stood next

to her, browsing through the fifty-percent-off rack.

The  woman  was  gorgeous—shoulder-length  hair,  a  graceful  neck,
perfect  features,  and  an  amazing  figure  tucked  into  jeans  and  a  snowy
white top.

Piper  had  seen  her  share  of  actresses—most  of  her  dad’s  dates  were
knockout  beautiful—but  this  lady  was  different.  She  was  elegant  without
trying,  fashionable  without effort, stunning without makeup.  After  seeing
Aeolus  with  his  silly  face-lifts  and  cosmetics,  Piper  thought  this  woman
looked even more astonishing. There was nothing artificial about her.

Yet as Piper watched, the woman’s appearance changed. Piper couldn’t
decide  the  color  of  her  eyes,  or  the  exact  color  of  her  hair.  The  woman
became  more  and  more  beautiful,  as  if  her  image  were  aligning  itself  to
Piper’s thoughts—getting as close as possible to Piper’s ideal of beauty.

“Aphrodite,” Piper said. “Mom?”
The  goddess  smiled.  “You’re  only  dreaming,  my  sweet.  If  anyone

wonders, I wasn’t here. Okay?”

“I—” Piper wanted to ask a thousand questions, but they all crowded

together in her head.

Aphrodite held up a turquoise dress. Piper thought it looked awesome,
but  the  goddess  made  a  face.  “This  isn’t  my  color,  is  it?  Pity,  it’s  cute.
Medea really does have some lovely things here.”

“This—this building exploded,” Piper stammered. “I saw it.”
“Yes,”  Aphrodite  agreed.  “I  suppose  that’s  why  everything’s  on  sale.
Just  a memory, now. And I’m sorry  to  pull you out  of your other  dream.
Much more pleasant, I know.”

Piper’s face burned. She didn’t know whether she was more angry or
embarrassed,  but  mostly  she  felt  hollow  with  disappointment.  “It  wasn’t
real. It never even happened. So why do I remember it so vividly?”

Aphrodite  smiled.  “Because  you  are  my  daughter,  Piper.  You  see
possibilities much more vividly than others. You see what could be. And it
still  might  be—don’t  give  up.  Unfortunately—”  The  goddess  gestured
around  the  department  store.  “You  have  other  trials  to  face,  first.  Medea
will  be  back,  along  with  many  other  enemies.  The  Doors  of  Death  have
opened.”

“What do you mean?”
Aphrodite winked at her. “You’re a smart one, Piper. You know.”
A cold feeling settled over her. “The sleeping woman, the one Medea
and Midas called their patron. She’s managed to open a new entrance from
the Underworld. She’s letting the dead escape back into the world.”

“Mmm. And not just any dead. The worst, the most powerful, the ones

most likely to hate the gods.”

“The  monsters  are  coming  back  from  Tartarus  the  same  way,”  Piper

guessed. “That’s why they don’t stay disintegrated.”

“Yes.  Their  patron,  as  you  call  her,  has  a  special  relationship  with
Tartarus, the spirit of the pit.” Aphrodite held up a gold sequined top. “No
… this would make me look ridiculous.”

Piper laughed uneasily. “You? You can’t look anything but perfect.”
“You’re sweet,” Aphrodite said. “But beauty is about finding the right
fit,  the  most  natural  fit.  To  be  perfect,  you  have  to  feel  perfect  about
yourself—avoid  trying  to  be  something  you’re  not.  For  a  goddess,  that’s
especially hard. We can change so easily.”

“My dad thought you were perfect.” Piper’s voice quavered. “He never

got over you.”

Aphrodite’s gaze became distant. “Yes … Tristan. Oh, he was amazing.
So  gentle  and  kind,  funny  and  handsome.  Yet  he  had  so  much  sadness
inside.”

“Could we please not talk about him in the past tense?”
“I’m  sorry,  dear.  I  didn’t  want  to  leave  your  father,  of  course.  It’s
always  so  hard,  but  it  was  for  the  best.  If  he  had  realized  who  I  actually
was—”

“Wait—he didn’t know you were a goddess?”
“Of  course  not.”  Aphrodite  sounded  offended.  “I  wouldn’t  do  that  to
him.  For  most  mortals,  that’s  simply  too  hard  to  accept.  It  can  ruin  their
lives! Ask your friend Jason—lovelyboy, by the way. His poor mother was
destroyed  when  she  found  out  she’d  fallen  in  love  with  Zeus.  No,  it  was
much  better  Tristan  believed  that  I  was  a  mortal  woman  who  left  him
without  explanation.  Better  a  bittersweet  memory  than  an  immortal,
unattainable goddess. Which brings me to an important matter …”

She  opened  her  hand  and  showed  Piper  a  glowing  glass  vial  of  pink
liquid.  “This  is  one  of  Medea’s  kinder  mixtures.  It  erases  only  recent
memories.  When  you  save  your  father,  if you  can  save  him,  you  should
give him this.”

Piper couldn’t believe what she was hearing. “You want me to dope my

dad? You want me to make him forget what he’s been through?”

Aphrodite held up the vial. The liquid cast a pink glow over her face.
“Your  father  acts  confident,  Piper,  but  he  walks  a  fine  line  between  two
worlds. He’s worked his whole life to deny the old stories about gods and
spirits, yet he fears those stories might be real. He fears that he’s shut off
an  important  part  of  himself,  and  someday  it  will  destroy  him.  Now  he’s
been captured by a giant. He’s living a nightmare. Even if he survives … if
he has to spend the rest of his life with those memories, knowing that gods
and spirits walk the earth, it will shatter him. That’s what our enemy hopes
for. She will break him, and thus break your spirit.”

Piper  wanted  to  shout  that  Aphrodite  was  wrong.  Her  dad  was  the
strongest person she knew. Piper would never take his memories the way
Hera had taken Jason’s.

But somehow she couldn’t stay angry with Aphrodite. She remembered
what  her  dad  had  said  months  ago,  at  the  beach  at  Big  Sur:  If  I  really
believed in Ghost Country, or animal spirits, or Greek gods... I don’t think
I could sleep at night. I’d always be looking for somebody to blame.

Now Piper wanted someone to blame, too.
“Who is she?” Piper demanded. “The one controlling the giants?”
Aphrodite  pursed  her  lips.  She  moved  to  the  next  rack,  which  held
battered armor and ripped togas, but Aphrodite looked through them as if
they were designer outfits.

“You  have  a  strong  will,”  she  mused.  “I’m  never  given  much  credit
among  the  gods.  My  children  are  laughed  at.  They’re  dismissed  as
conceited and shallow.”
“Some of them are.”
Aphrodite laughed. “Granted. Perhaps I’m conceited and shallow, too,
sometimes. A girl has to indulge. Oh, this is nice.” She picked up a burned
and stained bronze breastplate and held it up for Piper to see. “No?”
“No,” Piper said. “Are you going to answer my question?”
“Patience,  my  sweet,”  the  goddess  said.  “My  point  is  that  love  is  the
most powerful motivator in the world. It spurs mortals to greatness. Their
noblest, bravest acts are done for love.”

Piper  pulled  out  her  dagger  and  studied  its  reflective  blade.  “Like

Helen starting the Trojan War?”

“Ah,  Katoptris.”  Aphrodite  smiled.  “I’m  glad  you  found  it.  I  get  so
much flack for that war, but honestly, Paris and Helen were a cute couple.
And the heroes of that war are immortal now—at least in the memories of
men. Love is powerful, Piper. It can bring even the gods to their knees. I
told this to my son Aeneas when he escaped from Troy. He thought he had
failed. He thought he was a loser! But he traveled to Italy—”

“And became the forebear of Rome.”
“Exactly.  You  see,  Piper,  my  children  can  be  quite  powerful.  You can
be  quite  powerful,  because  my  lineage  is  unique.  I  am  closer  to  the
beginning of creation than any other Olympian.”

Piper  struggled  to  remember  about  Aphrodite’s  birth.  “Didn’t  you  …

rise from the sea? Standing on a seashell?”

The goddess laughed. “That painter Botticelli had quite an imagination.
I never stood on a seashell, thank you very much. But yes, I rose from the
sea. The first beings to rise from Chaos were the Earth and Sky—Gaea and
Ouranos. When their son the Titan Kronos killed Ouranos—”

“By chopping him to pieces with a scythe,” Piper remembered.
Aphrodite wrinkled her nose. “Yes. The pieces of Ouranos fell into the

sea. His immortal essence created sea foam. And from that foam—”

“You were born. I remember now. So you’re—”
“The  last  child  of  Ouranos,  who  was  greater  than  the  gods  or  the
Titans. So, in a strange way, I’m the eldest Olympian god. As I said, love

is  a  powerful  force.  And  you,  my  daughter,  are  much  more  than  a  pretty
face. Which is why you already know who is waking the giants, and who
has the power to open doors into the deepest parts of the earth.”

Aphrodite  waited,  as  if  she  could  sense  Piper  slowly  putting  together

the pieces of a puzzle, which made a dreadful picture.

“Gaea,” Piper said. “The earth itself. That’s our enemy.”
She hoped Aphrodite would say no, but the goddess kept her eyes on
the rack of tattered armor. “She has slumbered for eons, but she is slowly
waking.  Even  asleep,  she  is  powerful,  but  once  she  wakes  …  we  will  be
doomed.  You  must  defeat  the  giants  before  that  happens,  and  lull  Gaea
back into her slumber.  Otherwise  the  rebellion has only  begun. The  dead
will  continue  to  rise.  Monsters  will  regenerate  with  even  greater  speed.
The giants will lay waste to the birthplace of the gods. And if they do that,
all civilization will burn.”

“But Gaea? Mother Earth?”
“Do  not  underestimate  her,”  Aphrodite  warned.  “She  is  a  cruel  deity.
She  orchestrated  Ouranos’s  death.  She gave  Kronos  the  sickle  and  urged
him to kill his own father. While the Titans ruled the world, she slumbered
in peace. But when the gods overthrew them, Gaea woke again in all her
anger and gave birth to a new race—the giants—to destroy Olympus once
and for all.”

“And it’s happening again,” Piper said. “The rise of the giants.”
Aphrodite nodded. “Now you know. What will you do?”
“Me?” Piper clenched her fists. “What am I supposed to do? Put on a

pretty dress and sweet-talk Gaea into going back to sleep?”

“I  wish  that  would  work,”  Aphrodite  said.  “But  no,  you  will  have  to
find  your  own  strengths,  and  fight  for  what  you  love.  Like  my  favored
ones, Helen and Paris. Like my son Aeneas.”

“Helen and Paris died,” Piper said.
“And Aeneas became a hero,” the goddess countered. “The first great
hero of Rome. The result will depend on you, Piper, but I will tell you this:
The  seven  greatest  demigods  must  be  gathered  to  defeat  the  giants,  and
that effort will not succeed without you. When the two sides meet … you
will  be  the  mediator.  You  will  determine  whether  there  is  friendship  or
bloodshed.”

“What two sides?”
Piper’s vision began to dim.
“You  must  wake  soon,  my  child,”  said  the  goddess.  “I  do  not  always
agree with Hera, but she’s taken a bold risk, and I agree it must be done.
Zeus has kept the two sides apart for too long. Only together will you have
the power to save Olympus. Now, wake, and I hope you like the clothes I
picked out.”

“What clothes?” Piper demanded, but the dream faded to black.

PIPER WOKE AT A TABLE AT A SIDEWALK CAFÉ.

For  a  second,  she  thought  she  was  still  dreaming.  It  was  a  sunny
morning.  The  air  was  brisk  but  not  unpleasant  for  sitting  outside.  At  the
other  tables,  a  mix  of  bicyclists,  business  people,  and  college  kids  sat
chatting and drinking coffee.

She could smell eucalyptus trees. Lots of foot traffic passed in front of
quaint  little  shops.  The  street  was  lined  with  bottle-brush  trees  and
blooming azaleas as if winter was a foreign concept.

In other words: she was in California.
Her  friends  sat  in  chairs  around  her—all  of  them  with  their  hands
calmly folded across their chests, dozing pleasantly. And they all had new
clothes on. Piper looked down at her own outfit and gasped. “Mother!”

She  yelled  louder  than  she  meant.  Jason  flinched,  bumping  the  table

with his knees, and then all of them were awake.

“What?” Hedge demanded. “Fight who? Where?”
“Falling!” Leo grabbed the table. “No—not falling. Where are we?”
Jason blinked, trying to get his bearings. He focused on Piper and made

a little choking sound. “What are you wearing?”

Piper  probably  blushed.  She  was  wearing  the  turquoise  dress  she’d
seen in her dream, with black leggings and black leather boots. She had on
her favorite silver charm bracelet, even though she’d left that back home in
L.A.,  and  her  old  snowboarding  jacket  from  her  dad,  which  amazingly
went with the outfit pretty well. She pulled out Katoptris, and judging from
the reflection in the blade, she’d gotten her hair done, too.

“It’s  nothing,”  she  said.  “It’s  my—”  She  remembered  Aphrodite’s

warning not to mention that they’d talked. “It’s nothing.”

Leo grinned. “Aphrodite strikes again, huh? You’re gonna be the best-

dressed warrior in town, beauty queen.”

“Hey, Leo.” Jason nudged his arm. “You look at yourself recently?”
“What … oh.”
All  of  them  had  been  give  a  makeover.  Leo  was  wearing  pinstriped
pants, black leather shoes, a white collarless shirt with suspenders, and his
tool belt, Ray-Ban sunglasses, and a porkpie hat.

“God, Leo.” Piper tried not to laugh. “I think my dad wore that to his

last premiere, minus the tool belt.”

“Hey, shut up!”
“I think he looks good,” said Coach Hedge. “’Course, I look better.”
The  satyr  was  a  pastel  nightmare.  Aphrodite  had  given  him  a  baggy
canary  yellow  zoot  suit  with  two-tone  shoes  that  fit  over  his  hooves.  He
had  a  matching  yellow  broad-brimmed  hat,  a  rose-colored  shirt,  a  baby
blue  tie,  and  a  blue  carnation  in  his  lapel,  which  Hedge  sniffed  and  then
ate.

“Well,” Jason said, “at least your mom overlooked me.”
Piper  knew  that  wasn’t  exactly  true.  Looking  at  him,  her  heart  did  a
little  tap  dance.  Jason  was  dressed  simply  in  jeans  and  a  clean  purple  T-
shirt, like he’d worn at the Grand Canyon. He had new track shoes on, and
his  hair  was  newly  trimmed.  His  eyes  were  the  same  color  as  the  sky.
Aphrodite’s message was clear: This one needs no improvement.

And Piper agreed.
“Anyway,” she said uncomfortably, “how did we get here?”
“Oh,  that  would  be  Mellie,”  Hedge  said,  chewing  happily  on  his
carnation. “Those winds shot us halfway across the country, I’d guess. We
would’ve been smashed flat on impact, but Mellie’s last gift—a nice soft
breeze—cushioned our fall.”

“And she got fired for us,” Leo said. “Man, we suck.”
“Ah,  she’ll  be  fine,”  Hedge  said.  “Besides,  she  couldn’t  help  herself.
I’ve got that effect on nymphs. I’ll send her a message when we’re through
with this quest and help her figure something out. That is one aura I could
settle down with and raise a herd of baby goats.”

“I’m going to be sick,” Piper said. “Anyone else want coffee?”

“Coffee!”  Hedge’s  grin  was  stained  blue  from  the  flower.  “I  love

coffee!”

“Um,” Jason said, “but—money? Our packs?”
Piper  looked  down.  Their  packs  were  at  their  feet,  and  everything
seemed  to  still  be  there.  She  reached  into  her  coat  pocket  and  felt  two
things she hadn’t expected. One was a wad of cash. The other was a glass
vial—the  amnesia  potion.  She  left  the  vial  in  her  pocket  and  brought  out
the money.

Leo whistled. “Allowance? Piper, your mom rocks!”
“Waitress!”  Hedge  called.  “Six  double  espressos,  and  whatever  these

guys want. Put it on the girl’s tab.”

It  didn’t  take  them  long  to  figure  out  where  they  were.  The  menus  said
“Café Verve, Walnut Creek, CA.” And according to the waitress, it was 9
a.m.  on  December  21,  the  winter  solstice,  which  gave  them  three  hours
until Enceladus’s deadline.

They  didn’t  have  to  wonder  where  Mount  Diablo  was,  either.  They
could see it on the horizon, right at the end of the street. After the Rockies,
Mount Diablo didn’t look very large, nor was it covered in snow. It seemed
downright peaceful, its golden creases marbled with gray-green trees. But
size  was  deceptive  with  mountains,  Piper  knew.  It  was  probably  much
bigger  up  close.  And  appearances  were  deceptive  too.  Here  they  were—
back  in  California—supposedly  her  home—with  sunny  skies,  mild
weather, laid-back people, and a plate of chocolate chip scones with coffee.
And  only  a  few  miles  away,  somewhere  on  that  peaceful  mountain,  a
superpowerful, super-evil giant was about to have her father for lunch.

Leo  pulled  something  out  of  his  pocket—the  old  crayon  drawing
Aeolus  had  given  him.  Aphrodite  must’ve  thought  it  was  important  if
she’d magically transferred it to his new outfit.

“What is that?” Piper asked.
Leo folded  it up gingerly  again  and put  it away. “Nothing.  You don’t

want to see my kindergarten artwork.”

“It’s more than that,” Jason guessed. “Aeolus said it was the key to our

success.”

Leo shook his head. “Not today. He was talking about… later.”

“How can you be sure?” Piper asked.
“Trust me,” Leo said. “Now—what’s our game plan?”
Coach Hedge belched. He’d already had three espressos and a plate of
doughnuts,  along  with  two  napkins  and  another  flower  from  the  vase  on
the table. He would’ve eaten the silverware, except Piper had slapped his
hand.

“Climb  the  mountain,”  Hedge  said.  “Kill  everything  except  Piper’s

dad. Leave.”

“Thank you, General Eisenhower,” Jason grumbled.
“Hey, I’m just saying!”
“Guys,” Piper said. “There’s more you need to know.”
It was tricky, because she couldn’t mention her mom; but she told them
she’d figured some things out in her dreams. She told them about their real
enemy: Gaea.

“Gaea?”  Leo  shook  his  head.  “Isn’t  that  Mother  Nature?  She’s
supposed to have, like, flowers in her hair and birds singing around her and
deer and rabbits doing her laundry.”

“Leo, that’s Snow White,” Piper said.
“Okay, but—”
“Listen, cupcake.” Coach Hedge dabbed the espresso out of his goatee.
“Piper’s telling us some serious stuff, here. Gaea’s no softie. I’m not even
sure I could take her.”

Leo whistled. “Really?”
Hedge  nodded.  “This  earth  lady—she  and  her  old  man  the  sky  were

nasty customers.”

“Ouranos,”  Piper  said.  She  couldn’t  help  looking  up  at  the  blue  sky,

wondering if it had eyes.

“Right,”  Hedge  said.  “So  Ouranos,  he’s  not  the  best  dad.  He  throws
their first kids, the Cyclopes, into Tartarus. That makes Gaea mad, but she
bides  her  time.  Then  they  have  another  set  of  kids—the  twelve  Titans—
and Gaea is afraid they’ll get thrown into prison too. So she goes up to her
son Kronos—”

“The big bad dude,” Leo said. “The one they defeated last summer.”

“Right.  And  Gaea’s  the  one  who  gives  him  the  scythe,  and  tells  him,
‘Hey, why don’t I call your dad down here? And while he’s talking to me,
distracted,  you  can  cut  him  to  pieces.  Then  you  can  take  over  the  world.
Wouldn’t that be great?’”

Nobody  said  anything.  Piper’s  chocolate  chip  scone  didn’t  look  so
appetizing  anymore.  Even  though  she’d  heard  the  story  before,  she  still
couldn’t quite get her mind around it. She tried to imagine a kid so messed
up, he would kill his own dad just for power. Then she imagined a mom so
messed up, she would convince her son to do it.
“Definitely not Snow White,” she decided.
“Nah,  Kronos  was  a  bad  guy,”  Hedge  said.  “But  Gaea  is  literally  the
mother of all bad guys. She’s so old and powerful, so huge, that it’s hard
for  her to  be fully  conscious. Most  of the  time,  she sleeps, and that’s the
way  we  like  her—snoring.”“But  she  talked  to  me,”  Leo  said.  “How  can
she be asleep?”

Gleeson  brushed  crumbs  off  his  canary  yellow  lapel.  He  was  on  his
sixth  espresso  now,  and  his  pupils  were  as  big  as  quarters.  “Even  in  her
sleep, part of her consciousness is active—dreaming, keeping watch, doing
little things like causing volcanoes to explode and monsters to rise. Even
now,  she’s  not  fully  awake.  Believe  me,  you  don’t  want  to  see  her  fully
awake.”

“But  she’s  getting  more  powerful,”  Piper  said.  “She’s  causing  the

giants to rise. And if their king comes back—this guy Porphyrion—”

“He’ll raise an army to destroy the gods,” Jason put in. “Starting with

Hera. It’ll be another war. And Gaea will wake up fully.”

Gleeson nodded. “Which is why it’s a good idea for us to stay off the

ground as much as possible.”

Leo looked warily at Mount Diablo. “So … climbing a mountain. That

would be bad.”

Piper’s heart sank. First, she’d been asked to betray her friends. Now
they  were  trying  to  help  her  rescue  her  dad  even  though  they  knew  they
were  walking  into  a  trap.  The  idea  of  fighting  a  giant  had  been  scary
enough. But the idea that Gaea was behind it—a force more powerful than
a god or Titan …

“Guys, I can’t ask you to do this,” Piper said. “This is too dangerous.”

“You kidding?”  Gleeson belched  and showed  them his  blue  carnation

smile. “Who’s ready to beat stuff up?”

LEO HOPED THE TAXI COULD TAKE THEM all the way to the top.

No  such  luck.  The  cab  made  lurching,  grinding  sounds  as  it  climbed
the mountain road, and halfway up they found the ranger’s station closed, a
chain blocking the way.

“Far  as  I  can  go,”  the  cabbie  said.  “You  sure  about  this?  Gonna  be  a

long walk back, and my car’s acting funny. I can’t wait for you.”

“We’re  sure.”  Leo  was  the  first  one  out.  He  had  a  bad  feeling  about
what  was  wrong  with  the  cab,  and  when  he  looked  down  he  saw  he  was
right. The wheels were sinking into the road like it was made of quicksand.
Not  fast—just  enough  to  make  the  driver  think  he  had  a  transmission
problem or a bad axle—but Leo knew different.

The  road  was  hard-packed  dirt.  No  reason  at  all  it  should  have  been
soft, but already Leo’s shoes were starting to sink. Gaea was messing with
them.

While  his  friends  got  out,  Leo  paid  the  cabbie.  He  was  generous—
heck, why not? It was Aphrodite’s money. Plus, he had a feeling he might
never be coming off this mountain.

“Keep the change,” he said. “And get out of here. Quick.”
The driver didn’t argue. Soon all they could see was his dust trail.
The  view  from  the  mountain  was  pretty  amazing.  The  whole  inland
valley  around  Mount  Diablo  was  a  patchwork  of  towns—grids  of  tree-
lined streets  and nice  middle-class suburbs,  shops, and schools.  All  these
normal people living normal lives—the kind Leo had never known.

“That’s  Concord,”  Jason  said,  pointing  to  the  north.  “Walnut  Creek

below us. To the south, Danville, past those hills. And that way …”

He pointed west, where a ridge of golden hills held back a layer of fog,
like the rim of a bowl. “That’s the Berkeley Hills. The East Bay. Past that,

San Francisco.”

“Jason?”  Piper  touched  his  arm.  “You  remember  something?  You’ve

been here?”

“Yes … no.” He gave her an anguished look. “It just seems important.”
“That’s Titan land.” Coach Hedge nodded toward the west. “Bad place,

Jason. Trust me, this is as close to ’Frisco as we want to get.”

But  Jason  looked  toward  the  foggy  basin  with  such  longing  that  Leo
felt  uneasy.  Why  did  Jason  seem  so  connected  with  that  place—a  place
Hedge  said  was  evil,  full  of  bad  magic  and  old  enemies?  What  if  Jason
came  from  here?  Everybody  kept  hinting  Jason  was  an  enemy,  that  his
arrival at Camp Half-Blood was a dangerous mistake.

No, Leo thought. Ridiculous. Jason was their friend.
Leo  tried  to  move  his  foot,  but  his  heels  were  now  completely

embedded in the dirt.

“Hey, guys,” he said. “Let’s keep moving.”
The others noticed the problem.
“Gaea is stronger here,” Hedge grumbled. He popped his hooves free
from his shoes, then handed the shoes to Leo. “Keep those for me, Valdez.
They’re nice.”

Leo snorted. “Yes, sir, Coach. Would you like them polished?”
“That’s  varsity  thinking,  Valdez.”  Hedge  nodded  approvingly.  “But

first, we’d better hike up this mountain while we still can.”
“How do we know where the giant is?” Piper asked.
Jason pointed toward the peak. Drifting across the summit was a plume
of smoke. From a distance, Leo had thought it was a cloud, but it wasn’t.
Something was burning.

“Smoke equals fire,” Jason said. “We’d better hurry.”

The  Wilderness  School  had  taken  Leo  on  several  forced  marches.  He
thought  he  was  in  good  shape.  But  climbing  a  mountain  when  the  earth
was trying to swallow his feet was like jogging on a flypaper treadmill.

In no time, Leo had rolled up the sleeves on his collarless shirt, even
though the wind was cold and sharp. He wished Aphrodite had given him
walking shorts and some more comfortable shoes, but he was grateful for
the Ray-Bans that kept the sun out of his eyes. He slipped his hands into

his tool belt and started summoning supplies—gears, a tiny wrench, some
strips of bronze. As he walked, he built—not really thinking about it, just
fiddling with pieces.

By  the  time  they  neared  the  crest  of  the  mountain,  Leo  was  the  most
fashionably  dressed  sweaty,  dirty  hero  ever.  His  hands  were  covered  in
machine grease.

The little object he’d made was like a windup toy—the kind that rattles
and  walks  across  a  coffee  table.  He  wasn’t  sure  what  it  could  do,  but  he
slipped it into his tool belt.

He missed his army coat with all its pockets. Even more than that, he
missed Festus. He could use a fire-breathing bronze dragon right now. But
Leo knew Festus would not be coming back—at least, not in his old form.

He patted the picture in his pocket—the crayon drawing he’d made at
the  picnic  table  under  the  pecan  tree  when  he  was  five  years  old.  He
remembered  Tía  Callida  singing  as  he  worked,  and  how  upset  he’d  been
when the winds had snatched the picture away. It isn’t time yet, little hero,
Tía  Callida  had  told  him.  Someday,  yes.  You’ll  have  your  quest.  You  will
find your destiny, and your hard journey will finally make sense.

Now Aeolus had returned the picture. Leo knew that meant his destiny
was  getting  close;  but  the  journey  was  as  frustrating  as  this  stupid
mountain. Every time Leo thought they’d reached the summit, it turned out
to be just another ridge with an even higher one behind it.

First  things  first,  Leo  told  himself.  Survive  today.  Figure  out  crayon

drawing of destiny later.

Finally  Jason  crouched  behind  a  wall  of  rock.  He  gestured  for  the
others to do the same. Leo crawled up next to him. Piper had to pull Coach
Hedge down.

“I don’t want to get my outfit dirty!” Hedge complained.
“Shhh!” Piper said.
Reluctantly, the satyr knelt.
Just  over  the  ridge  where  they  were  hiding,  in  the  shadow  of  the
mountain’s  final  crest,  was  a  forested  depression  about  the  size  of  a
football field, where the giant Enceladus had set up camp.

Trees had been cut down to make a towering purple bonfire. The outer
rim of the clearing was littered with extra logs and construction equipment

—an earthmover; a big crane thing with rotating blades at the end like an
electric shaver—must be a tree harvester, Leo thought—and a long metal
column with an ax blade, like a sideways guillotine—a hydraulic ax.

Why  a  giant  needed  construction  equipment,  Leo  wasn’t  sure.  He
didn’t  see  how  the  creature  in  front  of  him  could  even  fit  in  the  driver’s
seat. The giant Enceladus was so large, so horrible, Leo didn’t want to look
at him.

But he forced himself to focus on the monster.
To start with, he was thirty feet tall—easily as tall as the treetops. Leo
was  sure  the  giant  could’ve  seen  them  behind  their  ridge,  but  he  seemed
intent on the weird purple bonfire, circling it and chanting under his breath.
From the waist up, the giant appeared humanoid, his muscular chest clad in
bronze  armor,  decorated  with  flame  designs.  His  arms  were  completely
ripped.  Each of his  biceps  was  bigger  than  Leo.  His skin  was  bronze  but
sooty  with  ash.  His  face  was  crudely  shaped,  like  a  half-finished  clay
figure,  but  his  eyes  glowed  white,  and  his  hair  was  matted  in  shaggy
dreadlocks down to his shoulders, braided with bones.

From the waist down, he was even more terrifying. His legs were scaly
green,  with  claws  instead  of  feet—like  the  forelegs  of  a  dragon.  In  his
hand,  Enceladus  held  a  spear  the  size  of  a  flagpole.  Every  so  often  he
dipped its tip in the fire, turning the metal molten red.

“Okay,” Coach Hedge whispered. “Here’s the plan—”
Leo elbowed him. “You’re not charging him alone!”
“Aw, c’mon.”
Piper choked back a sob. “Look.”
Just visible on the other side of the bonfire was a man tied to a post.
His head slumped like he was unconscious, so Leo couldn’t make out his
face, but Piper didn’t seem to have any doubts.

“Dad,” she said.
Leo  swallowed.  He  wished  this  were  a  Tristan  McLean  movie.  Then
Piper’s  dad  would  be  faking  unconsciousness.  He’d  untie  his  bonds  and
knock out the giant with some cleverly hidden anti-giant gas. Heroic music
would start to play, and Tristan McLean would make his amazing escape,
running  away  in  slow  motion  while  the  mountainside  exploded  behind
him.

But this wasn’t a movie. Tristan McLean was half dead and about to be
eaten.  The  only  people  who  could  stop  it—three  fashionably  dressed
teenaged demigods and a megalomaniac goat.

“There’s  four  of  us,”  Hedge  whispered  urgently.  “And  only  one  of

him.”

“Did you miss the fact that he’s thirty feet tall?” Leo asked.
“Okay,” Hedge said. “So you, me, and Jason distract him. Piper sneaks

around and frees her dad.”

They all looked at Jason.
“What?” Jason asked. “I’m not the leader.”
“Yes,” Piper said. “You are.”
They’d  never  really  talked  about  it,  but  no  one  disagreed,  not  even
Hedge. Coming this far had been a team effort, but when it came to a life-
and-death decision, Leo knew Jason was the one to ask. Even if he had no
memory, Jason had a kind of balance to him. You could just tell he’d been
in battles before, and he knew how to keep his cool. Leo wasn’t exactly the
trusting type, but he trusted Jason with his life.

“I  hate  to  say  it,”  Jason  sighed,  “but  Coach  Hedge  is  right.  A

distraction is Piper’s best chance.”

Not  a  good  chance,  Leo  thought.  Not  even  a  survivable  chance.  Just

their best chance.

They  couldn’t  sit  there  all  day  and  talk  about  it,  though.  It  had  to  be
close to noon—the giant’s deadline—and the ground was still trying to pull
them down. Leo’s knees had already sunk two inches into the dirt.

Leo  looked  at  the  construction  equipment  and  got  a  crazy  idea.  He
brought out the little toy he’d made on the climb, and he realized what it
could do—if he was lucky, which he almost never was.

“Let’s boogie,” he said. “Before I come to my senses.”

THE PLAN WENT WRONG ALMOST IMMEDIATELY. Piper scrambled along the
ridge, trying to keep her head down, while Leo, Jason, and Coach Hedge
walked straight into the clearing.

Jason summoned his golden lance. He brandished it over his head and
yelled, “Giant!” Which sounded pretty good, and a lot more confident than
Leo could’ve managed. He was thinking more along the lines of, “We are
pathetic ants! Don’t kill us!”

Enceladus stopped chanting at the flames. He turned toward them and

grinned, revealing fangs like a saber-toothed tiger’s.

“Well,” the giant rumbled. “What a nice surprise.”
Leo  didn’t  like  the  sound  of  that.  His  hand  closed  on  his  windup

gadget. He stepped sideways, edging his way toward the bulldozer.

Coach Hedge shouted, “Let the movie star go, you big ugly cupcake!

Or I’m gonna plant my hoof right up your—”

“Coach,” Jason said. “Shut up.”
Enceladus  roared  with  laughter.  “I’ve  forgotten how funny satyrs are.
When  we  rule  the  world,  I  think  I’ll  keep  your  kind  around.  You  can
entertain me while I eat all the other mortals.”

“Is that a compliment?” Hedge frowned at Leo. “I don’t think that was

a compliment.”

Enceladus opened his mouth wide, and his teeth began to glow.
“Scatter!” Leo yelled.
Jason and Hedge dove to the left as the giant blew fire—a furnace blast
so  hot  even  Festus  would’ve  been  jealous.  Leo  dodged  behind  the
bulldozer, wound up his homemade device, and dropped it into the driver’s
seat. Then he ran to the right, heading for the tree harvester.

Out  of  the  corner  of  his  eye,  he  saw  Jason  rise  and  charge  the  giant.
Coach Hedge ripped off his canary yellow jacket, which was now on fire,
and  bleated  angrily.  “I  liked  that  outfit!”  Then  he  raised  his  club  and
charged, too.

Before  they  could  get  very  far,  Enceladus  slammed  his  spear  against

the ground. The entire mountain shook.

The shockwave sent Leo sprawling. He blinked, momentarily stunned.
Through a haze of grassfire and bitter smoke, he saw Jason staggering to
his  feet  on  the  other  side  of  the  clearing.  Coach  Hedge  was  knocked  out
cold. He’d fallen forward and hit his head on a log. His furry hindquarters
were sticking straight up, with his canary yellow pants around his knees—
a view Leo really didn’t need.

The  giant  bellowed,  “I  see  you,  Piper  McLean!”  He  turned  and  blew
fire  at  a  line  of  bushes  to  Leo’s  right.  Piper  ran  into  the  clearing  like  a
flushed quail, the underbrush burning behind her.

Enceladus  laughed.  “I’m  happy  you’ve  arrived.  And  you  brought  me

my prizes!”

Leo’s gut twisted. This was the moment Piper had warned them about.

They’d played right into Enceladus’s hands.

The  giant  must’ve  read  Leo’s  expression,  because  he  laughed  even
louder.  “That’s  right,  son  of  Hephaestus.  I  didn’t  expect  you  all  to  stay
alive this long, but it doesn’t matter. By bringing you here, Piper McLean
has sealed the deal. If she betrays you, I’m as good as my word. She can
take her father and go. What do I care about a movie star?”

Leo  could  see  Piper’s  dad  more  clearly  now.  He  wore  a  ragged  dress
shirt  and  torn  slacks.  His  bare  feet  were  caked  with  mud.  He  wasn’t
completely  unconscious,  because  he  lifted  his  head  and  groaned—yep,
Tristan McLean all right. Leo had seen that face in enough movies. But he
had a nasty cut down the side of his face, and he looked thin and sickly—
not heroic at all.

“Dad!” Piper yelled.
Mr. McLean blinked, trying to focus. “Pipes … ? Where …”
Piper drew her dagger and faced Enceladus. “Let him go!”
“Of  course,  dear,” the  giant rumbled.  “Swear  your loyalty  to  me,  and

we have no problem. Only these others must die.”

Piper looked back and forth between Leo and her dad.
“He’ll kill you,” Leo warned. “Don’t trust him!”
“Oh, come now,” Enceladus bellowed. “You know I was born to fight
Athena  herself?  Mother  Gaea  made  each  of  us  giants  with  a  specific
purpose,  designed  to  fight  and  destroy  a  particular  god.  I  was  Athena’s
nemesis,  the  anti-Athena,  you  might  say.  Compared  to  some  of  my
brethren—I am small! But I am clever. And I keep my bargain with you,
Piper McLean. It’s part of my plan!”

Jason  was  on  his  feet  now,  lance  ready;  but  before  he  could  act,
Enceladus  roared—a  call  so  loud  it  echoed  down  the  valley  and  was
probably heard all the way to San Francisco.

At  the  edge  the  woods,  half  a  dozen  ogre-like  creatures  rose  up.  Leo
realized  with  nauseating  certainty  that  they  hadn’t  simply  been  hiding
there. They’d risen straight out of the earth.

The ogres shuffled forward. They were small compared to Enceladus,
about  seven  feet  tall.  Each  one  of  them  had  six  arms—one  pair  in  the
regular spot, then an extra pair sprouting out the top of their shoulders, and
another  set  shooting  from  the  sides  of  their  rib  cages.  They  wore  only
ragged  leather  loincloths,  and  even  across  the  clearing,  Leo  could  smell
them. Six guys who never bathed, with six armpits each. Leo decided if he
survived this day, he’d have to take a three-hour shower just to forget the
stench.

Leo stepped toward Piper. “What—what are those?”
Her blade reflected the purple light of the bonfire. “Gegenees.”
“In English?” Leo asked.
“The  Earthborn,”  she  said.  “Six-armed  giants  who  fought  Jason—the

first Jason.”

“Very  good,  my  dear!”  Enceladus  sounded  delighted.  “They  used  to
live on a miserable place in Greece called Bear Mountain. Mount Diablo is
much nicer! They are lesser children of Mother Earth, but they serve their
purpose. They’re good with construction equipment—”

“Vroom,  vroom!” one of the  Earthborn bellowed,  and the  others took
up  the  chant,  each  moving  his  six  hands  as  though  driving  a  car,  as  if  it
were some kind of weird religious ritual. “Vroom, vroom!”

“Yes,  thank  you,  boys,”  Encedalus  said.  “They  also  have  a  score  to

settle with heroes. Especially anyone named Jason.”

“Yay-son!”  the  Earthborn  screamed.  They  all  picked  up  clumps  of
earth,  which  solidified  in  their  hands,  turning  to  nasty  pointed  stones.
“Where Yay-son? Kill Yay-son!”

Enceladus  smiled.  “You  see,  Piper,  you  have  a  choice.  Save  your

father, or ah, try to save your friends and face certain death.”

Piper  stepped  forward.  Her  eyes  blazed  with  such  rage,  even  the
Earthborn backed away. She radiated power and beauty, but it had nothing
to do with her clothes or her makeup.

“You will not take the people I love,” she said. “None of them.”
Her  words  rippled  across  the  clearing  with  such  force,  the  Earthborn

muttered, “Okay. Okay, sorry,” and began to retreat.

“Stand your ground, fools!” Enceladus bellowed. He snarled at Piper.
“This is why we wanted you alive, my dear. You could have been so useful
to us. But as you wish. Earth-born! I will show you Jason.”

Leo’s heart sank. But the giant didn’t point to Jason. He pointed to the
other  side  of  the  bonfire,  where  Tristan  McLean  hung  helpless  and  half
conscious.

“There is Jason,” Enceladus said with pleasure. “Tear him apart!”

Leo’s  biggest  surprise:  One  look  from  Jason,  and  all  three  of  them  knew
the game plan. When had that happened, that they could read each other so
well?

Jason  charged  Enceladus,  while  Piper  rushed  to  her  father,  and  Leo
dashed  for  the  tree  harvester,  which  stood  between  Mr.  McLean  and  the
Earthborn.

The  Earthborn  were  fast,  but  Leo  ran  like  a  storm  spirit.  He  leaped
toward  the  harvester  from  five  feet  away  and  slammed  into  the  driver’s
seat. His hands flew across the controls, and the machine responded with
unnatural speed—coming to life as if it knew how important this was.

“Ha!”  Leo  screamed,  and  swung  the  crane  arm  through  the  bonfire,
toppling burning logs onto the Earthborn and spraying sparks everywhere.
Two  giants  went  down  under  a  fiery  avalanche  and  melted  back  into  the
earth—hopefully to stay for a while.

The other four ogres stumbled across burning logs and hot coals while
Leo brought the harvester around. He smashed a button, and on the end of
the crane arm the wicked rotating blades began to whir.

Out of the corner of his eye, he could see Piper at the stake, cutting her
father  free.  On  the  other  side  of  the  clearing,  Jason  fought  the  giant,
somehow  managing  to  dodge  his  massive  spear  and  blasts  of  fire  breath.
Coach Hedge was still heroically passed out with his goat tail sticking up
in the air.

The  whole  side  of  the  mountain  would  soon  be  ablaze.  The  fire
wouldn’t bother Leo, but if his friends got trapped up here—No. He had to
act quickly.

One  of  the  Earthborn—apparently  not  the  most  intelligent  one—
charged the tree harvester, and Leo swung the crane arm in his direction.
As  soon  as  the  blades  touched  the  ogre,  he  dissolved  like  wet  clay  and
splattered all over the clearing. Most of him flew into Leo’s face.

He spit clay out of his mouth and turned the harvester toward the three

remaining Earthborn, who backed up quickly.

“Bad vroom-vroom!” one yelled.
“Yeah, that’s right!” Leo yelled at them. “You want some bad vroom-

vroom? Come on!”

Unfortunately,  they  did.  Three  ogres  with  six  arms,  each  throwing
large, hard rocks at super speed—and Leo knew it was over. Somehow, he
launched himself in a backward somersault off the harvester half a second
before a boulder demolished the driver’s seat. Rocks slammed into metal.
By the time Leo stumbled to his feet, the harvester looked like a crushed
soda can, sinking in the mud.
“Dozer!” Leo yelled.
The  ogres  were  picking  up  more  clumps  of  earth,  but  this  time  they

were glaring in Piper’s direction.

Thirty  feet  away,  the  bulldozer  roared  to  life.  Leo’s  makeshift  gadget
had done its job, burrowing into the earthmover’s controls and giving it a
temporary life of its own. It roared toward the enemy.

Just as Piper cut her father free and caught him in her arms, the giants
launched  their  second  volley  of  stones.  The  dozer  swiveled  in  the  mud,
skidding to intercept, and most of the rocks slammed into its shovel. The

force  was  so  great  it  pushed  the  dozer  back.  Two  rocks  ricocheted  and
struck their throwers. Two more Earthborn melted into clay. Unfortunately,
one rock hit the dozer’s engine, sending up a cloud of oily smoke, and the
dozer groaned to a stop. Another great toy broken.

Piper dragged her father below the ridge. The last Earth-born charged

after her.

Leo was out of tricks, but he couldn’t let that monster get to Piper. He
ran  forward,  straight  through  the  flames,  and  grabbed  something—
anything—from his tool belt.

“Hey, stupid!” he yelled, and threw a screwdriver at the Earthborn.
It didn’t kill the ogre, but it sure got his attention. The screwdriver sank

hilt-deep into the Earthborn’s forehead like he was made of Play-Doh.

The Earthborn yelped in pain and skittered to a halt. He pulled out the
screwdriver, turned and glared at Leo. Sadly, this last ogre looked like the
biggest and nastiest of the bunch. Gaea had really gone all out creating him
—with extra muscle upgrades, deluxe ugly face, the whole package.

Oh, great, Leo thought. I’ve made a friend.
“You die!” the Earthborn roared. “Friend of Yay-son dies!”
The  ogre  scooped  up  handfuls  of  dirt,  which  immediately  hardened

into rock cannonballs.

Leo’s mind went blank. He reached into his tool belt, but he couldn’t
think of anything that would help. He was supposed to be clever—but he
couldn’t craft or build or tinker his way out of this one.
Fine, he thought. I’ll go out blaze-of-glory style.
He  burst  into  flames,  yelled,  “Hephaestus!”  and  charged  at  the  ogre

barehanded.

He never got there.
A  blur  of  turquoise  and  black  flashed  behind  the  ogre.  A  gleaming

bronze blade sliced up one side of the Earthborn and down the other.

Six  large  arms  dropped  to  the  ground,  boulders  rolling  out  of  their
useless hands. The Earthborn looked down, very surprised. He mumbled,
“Arms go bye-bye.”

Then he melted into the ground.

Piper  stood  there,  breathing  hard,  her  dagger  covered  with  clay.  Her

dad sat at the ridge, dazed and wounded, but still alive.

Piper’s  expression  was  ferocious—almost  crazy,  like  a  cornered

animal. Leo was glad she was on his side.

“Nobody hurts my friends,” she said, and with a sudden warm feeling,

Leo realized she was talking about him. Then she yelled, “Come on!”

Leo  saw  that  the  battle  wasn’t  over.  Jason  was  still  fighting  the  giant

Enceladus—and it wasn’t going well.

WHEN JASON’S LANCE BROKE, he knew he was dead.

The battle had started well enough. Jason’s instincts kicked in, and his
gut  told  him  he’d  dueled  opponents  almost  this  big  before.  Size  and
strength equaled slowness, so Jason just had to be quicker—pace himself,
wear out his opponent, and avoid getting smashed or flame-broiled.

He rolled away from the giant’s first spear thrust and jabbed Enceladus
in the ankle. Jason’s javelin managed to pierce the thick dragon hide, and
golden ichor—the  blood  of  immortals—trickled  down  the  giant’s  clawed
foot.

Enceladus bellowed in pain and blasted him with fire. Jason scrambled

away, rolling behind the giant, and struck again behind his knee.

It went on like that for seconds, minutes—it was hard to judge. Jason
heard  combat  across  the  clearing—construction  equipment  grinding,  fire
roaring, monsters shouting, and rocks smashing into metal. He heard Leo
and Piper yelling defiantly, which meant they were still alive. Jason tried
not to think about it. He couldn’t afford to get distracted.

Enceladus’s spear missed him by a millimeter. Jason kept dodging, but
the ground stuck to his feet. Gaea was getting stronger, and the giant was
getting  faster.  Enceladus  might  be  slow,  but  he  wasn’t  dumb.  He  began
anticipating  Jason’s  moves,  and  Jason’s  attacks  were  only  annoying  him,
making him more enraged.

“I’m  not  some  minor  monster,”  Enceladus  bellowed.  “I  am  a  giant,

born to destroy gods! Your little gold toothpick can’t kill me, boy.”

Jason didn’t waste energy replying. He was already tired. The ground
clung  to  his  feet,  making  him  feel  like  he  weighed  an  extra  hundred
pounds.  The  air  was  full  of  smoke  that  burned  his  lungs.  Fires  roared
around him, stoked by the winds, and the temperature was approaching the
heat of an oven.

Jason raised his javelin to block the giant’s next strike—a big mistake.
Don’t  fight  force  with  force,  a  voice  chided  him—the  wolf  Lupa,  who’d
told him that long ago. He managed to deflect the spear, but it grazed his
shoulder, and his arm went numb.

He backed up, almost tripping over a burning log.
He had to delay—to keep the giant’s attention fixed on him while his

friends dealt with the Earthborn and rescued Piper’s dad. He couldn’t fail.

He  retreated,  trying  to  lure  the  giant  to  the  edge  of  the  clearing.

Enceladus could sense his weariness. The giant smiled, baring his fangs.

“The mighty Jason Grace,” he taunted. “Yes, we know about you, son
of  Jupiter.  The  one  who  led  the  assault  on  Mount  Othrys.  The  one  who
single-handedly slew the Titan Krios and toppled the black throne.”

Jason’s  mind  reeled.  He  didn’t  know  these  names,  yet  they  made  his

skin tingle, as if his body remembered the pain his mind didn’t.

“What are you talking about?” he asked. He realized his mistake when

Enceladus breathed fire.

Distracted,  Jason  moved  too  slowly.  The  blast  missed  him,  but  heat
blistered his back. He slammed into the ground, his clothes smoldering. He
was blinded from ash and smoke, choking as he tried to breathe.

He scrambled back as the giant’s spear cleaved the ground between his

feet.

Jason managed to stand.
If  he  could  only  summon  one  good  blast  of  lightning—but  he  was
already drained, and in this condition, the effort might kill him. He didn’t
even know if electricity would harm the giant.

Death in battle is honorable, said Lupa’s voice.
That’s real comforting, Jason thought.
One last try: Jason took a deep breath and charged.
Enceladus  let  him  approach,  grinning  with  anticipation.  At  the  last
second, Jason faked a strike and rolled between the giant’s legs. He came
up quickly, thrusting with all his might, ready to stab the giant in the small
of his back, but Enceladus anticipated the trick. He stepped aside with too
much speed and agility for a giant, as if the earth were helping him move.

He swept his spear sideways, met Jason’s javelin—and with a snap like

a shotgun blast, the golden weapon shattered.

The  explosion  was  hotter  than  the  giant’s  breath,  blinding  Jason  with
golden light. The force knocked him off his feet and squeezed the breath
out of him.

When  he  regained  his  focus,  he  was  sitting  at  the  rim  of  a  crater.
Enceladus  stood  at  the  other  side,  staggering  and  confused.  The  javelin’s
destruction  had  released  so  much  energy,  it  had  blasted  a  perfect  cone-
shaped  pit  thirty  feet  deep,  fusing  the  dirt  and  rock  into  a  slick  glassy
substance.  Jason  wasn’t  sure  how  he’d  survived,  but  his  clothes  were
steaming. He  was  out  of energy. He  had no weapon.  And Enceladus  was
still very much alive.

Jason tried to get up, but his legs were like lead. Enceladus blinked at
the  destruction,  then  laughed.  “Impressive!  Unfortunately,  that  was  your
last trick, demigod.”

Enceladus  leaped  the  crater  in  a  single  bound,  planting  his  feet  on
either side of Jason. The giant raised his spear, its tip hovering six feet over
Jason’s chest.

“And now,” Enceladus said, “my first sacrifice to Gaea!”

TIME  SEEMED  TO  SLOW  DOWN,  WHICH  WAS really  frustrating,  since  Jason
still couldn’t move. He felt himself sinking into the earth like the ground
was  a  waterbed—comfortable,  urging  him  to  relax  and  give  up.  He
wondered if the stories of the Underworld were true. Would he end up in
the Fields of Punishment or Elysium? If he couldn’t remember any of his
deeds, would they still count? He wondered if the judges would take that
into  consideration,  or  if  his  dad,  Zeus,  would  write  him  a  note:  “Please
excuse Jason from eternal damnation. He has had amnesia.”

Jason couldn’t feel his arms. He could see the tip of the spear coming
toward his chest in slow motion. He knew he should move, but he couldn’t
seem  to  do  it.  Funny,  he  thought.  All  that  effort  to  stay  alive,  and  then,
boom.  You  just  lie  there  helplessly  while  a  fire-breathing  giant  impales
you.

Leo’s voice yelled, “Heads up!”
A  large  black  metal  wedge  slammed  into  Enceladus  with  a  massive

thunk! The giant toppled over and slid into the pit.

“Jason, get up!” Piper called. Her voice energized him, shook him out
of his stupor. He sat up, his head groggy, while Piper grabbed him under
his arms and hauled him to his feet.

“Don’t die on me,” she ordered. “You are not dying on me.”
“Yes,  ma’am.”  He  felt  light-headed,  but  she  was  about  the  most
beautiful  thing  he’d  ever  seen.  Her  hair  was  smoldering.  Her  face  was
smudged with soot. She had a cut on her arm, her dress was torn, and she
was missing a boot. Beautiful.

About  a  hundred  feet  behind  her,  Leo  was  standing  over  a  piece  of
construction  equipment—a  long  cannonlike  thing  with  a  single  massive
piston, the edge broken clean off.

Then Jason looked down in the crater and saw where the other end of
the  hydraulic  ax  had  gone.  Enceladus  was  struggling  to  rise,  an  ax  blade
the size of a washing machine stuck in his breastplate.

Amazingly,  the  giant  managed  to  pull  the  ax  blade  free.  He  yelled  in
pain  and  the  mountain  trembled.  Golden  ichor  soaked  the  front  of  his
armor, but Enceladus stood.

Shakily, he bent down and retrieved his spear.
“Good try.” The giant winced. “But I cannot be beaten.”
As  they  watched,  the  giant’s  armor  mended  itself,  and  the  ichor
stopped flowing. Even the cuts on his dragon-scale legs, which Jason had
worked so hard to make, were now just pale scars.

Leo  ran  up  to  them,  saw  the  giant,  and  cursed.  “What  is it  with  this

guy? Die, already!”

“My fate is preordained,” Enceladus said. “Giants cannot be killed by

gods or heroes.”

“Only by both,” Jason said. The giant’s smile faltered, and Jason saw
in his eyes something like fear. “It’s true, isn’t it? Gods and demigods have
to work together to kill you.”

“You will not live long enough to try!” The giant started stumbling up

the crater’s slope, slipping on the glassy sides.
“Anyone have a god handy?” Leo asked.
Jason’s  heart  filled  with  dread.  He  looked  at  the  giant  below  them,

struggling to get out of the pit, and he knew what had to happen.

“Leo,” he said, “if you’ve got a rope in that tool belt, get it ready.”
He leaped at the giant with no weapon but his bare hands.
“Enceladus!” Piper yelled. “Look behind you!”
It  was  an  obvious  trick,  but  her  voice  was  so  compelling,  even  Jason
bought it. The giant said, “What?” and turned like there was an enormous
spider on his back.

Jason  tackled  his  legs  at  just  the  right  moment.  The  giant  lost  his
balance. Enceladus slammed into the crater and slid to the bottom. While
he  tried  to  rise,  Jason  put  his  arms  around  the  giant’s  neck.  When
Enceladus struggled to his feet, Jason was riding his shoulders.

“Get off!” Enceladus screamed. He tried to grab Jason’s legs, but Jason

scrabbled around, squirming and climbing over the giant’s hair.

Father, Jason  thought.  If  I’ve  ever  done  anything  good,  anything  you

approved of, help me now. I offer my own life—just save my friends.

Suddenly  he  could  smell  the  metallic  scent  of  a  storm.  Darkness

swallowed the sun. The giant froze, sensing it too.
Jason yelled to his friends, “Hit the deck!”
And every hair on his head stood straight up.
Crack!
Lightning  surged  through  Jason’s  body,  straight  through  Enceladus,
and  into  the  ground.  The  giant’s  back  stiffened,  and  Jason  was  thrown
clear. When he regained his bearings, he was slipping down the side of the
crater,  and  the  crater  was  cracking  open.  The  lightning  bolt  had  split  the
mountain  itself.  The  earth  rumbled  and  tore  apart,  and  Enceladus’s  legs
slid into the chasm. He clawed helplessly at the glassy sides of the pit, and
just for a moment managed to hold on to the edge, his hands trembling.

He fixed Jason with a look of hatred. “You’ve won nothing, boy. My
brothers are rising, and they are ten times as strong as I. We will destroy
the gods at their roots! You will die, and Olympus will die with—”

The giant lost his grip and fell into the crevice.
The earth shook. Jason fell toward the rift.
“Grab hold!” Leo yelled.
Jason’s feet were at the edge of the chasm when he grabbed the rope,

and Leo and Piper pulled him up.

They stood together, exhausted and terrified, as the chasm closed like

an angry mouth. The ground stopped pulling at their feet.

For now, Gaea was gone.
The  mountainside  was  on  fire.  Smoke  billowed  hundreds  of  feet  into
the  air.  Jason  spotted  a  helicopter—maybe  firefighters  or  reporters—
coming toward them.

All around them was carnage. The Earthborn had melted into piles of
clay,  leaving  behind  only  their  rock  missiles  and  some  nasty  bits  of
loincloth, but Jason figured they would re-form soon enough. Construction
equipment lay in ruins. The ground was scarred and blackened.

Coach Hedge started to move. He sat up with a groan and rubbed his
head. His canary yellow pants were now the color of Dijon mustard mixed
with mud.

He blinked and looked around him at the battle scene. “Did I do this?”
Before Jason could reply, Hedge picked up his club and got shakily to
his feet. “Yeah, you wanted some hoof? I gave you some hoof, cupcakes!
Who’s the goat, huh?”

He  did  a  little  dance,  kicking  rocks  and  making  what  were  probably

rude satyr gestures at the piles of clay.

Leo cracked a smile, and Jason couldn’t help it—he started to laugh. It
probably sounded a little hysterical, but it was such a relief to be alive, he
didn’t care.

Then  a  man  stood  up  across  the  clearing.  Tristan  McLean  staggered
forward.  His  eyes  were  hollow,  shell-shocked,  like  someone  who’d  just
walked through a nuclear wasteland.

“Piper?” he called. His voice cracked. “Pipes, what—what is—”
He  couldn’t  complete  the  thought.  Piper  ran  over  to  him  and  hugged

him tightly, but he almost didn’t seem to know her.

Jason had felt a similar way—that morning at the Grand Canyon, when
he woke with no memory. But Mr. McLean had the opposite problem. He
had too many memories,  too  much  trauma  his  mind  just  couldn’t  handle.
He was coming apart.

“We need to get him out of here,” Jason said.
“Yeah, but how?” Leo said. “He’s in no shape to walk.”
Jason  glanced  up  at  the  helicopter,  which  was  now  circling  directly
overhead.  “Can  you  make  us  a  bullhorn  or  something?”  he  asked  Leo.
“Piper has some talking to do.”

BORROWING  THE  HELICOPTER  WAS  EASY..  Getting  her  dad  on  board  was
not.

Piper  needed  only  a  few  words  through  Leo’s  improvised  bullhorn  to
convince  the  pilot  to  land  on  the  mountain.  The  Park  Service  copter  was
big enough for medical evacuations or search and rescue, and when Piper
told the very nice ranger pilot lady that it would be a great idea to fly them
to the Oakland Airport, she readily agreed.

“No,” her dad muttered, as they picked him up off the ground. “Piper,

what—there were monsters—there were monsters—”

She  needed  both  Leo’s  and  Jason’s  help  to  hold  him,  while  Coach
Hedge  gathered  their  supplies.  Fortunately  Hedge  had  put  his  pants  and
shoes back on, so Piper didn’t have to explain the goat legs.

It  broke  Piper’s  heart  to  see  her  dad  like  this—pushed  beyond  the
breaking point, crying like a little boy. She didn’t know what the giant had
done  to  him  exactly,  how  the  monsters  had  shattered  his  spirit,  but  she
didn’t think she could stand to find out.

“It’ll be okay, Dad,” she said, making her voice as soothing as possible.
She didn’t want to charmspeak her own father, but it seemed the only way.
“These people are my friends. We’re going to help you. You’re safe now.”
He  blinked,  and  looked  up  at  helicopter  rotors.  “Blades.  They  had  a

machine with so many blades. They had six arms …”

When  they  got  him  to  the  bay  doors,  the  pilot  came  over  to  help.

“What’s wrong with him?” she asked.

“Smoke inhalation,” Jason suggested. “Or heat exhaustion.”
“We should get him to a hospital,” the pilot said.
“It’s okay,” Piper said. “The airport is good.”

“Yeah,  the  airport  is  good,”  the  pilot  agreed  immediately.  Then  she
frowned,  as  if  uncertain  why  she’d  changed  her  mind.  “Isn’t  he  Tristan
McLean, the movie star?”

“No,” Piper said. “He only looks like him. Forget it.”
“Yeah,”  the  pilot  said.  “Only  looks  like  him.  I—”  She  blinked,

confused. “I forgot what I was saying. Let’s get going.”

Jason raised his eyebrows at Piper, obviously impressed, but Piper felt
miserable.  She  didn’t  want  to  twist  people’s  minds,  convince  them  of
things they didn’t believe. It felt so bossy, so wrong—like something Drew
would do back at camp, or Medea in her evil department store. And how
would it help her father? She couldn’t convince him he would be okay, or
that nothing had happened. His trauma was just too deep.

Finally  they  got  him  on  board,  and  the  helicopter  took  off.  The  pilot
kept getting questions over her radio, asking her where she was going, but
she  ignored  them.  They  veered  away  from  the  burning  mountain  and
headed toward the Berkeley Hills.

“Piper.” Her dad grasped her hand and held on like he was afraid he’d
fall. “It’s you? They told me—they told me you would die. They said …
horrible things would happen.”

“It’s  me,  Dad.”  It  took  all  her  willpower  not  to  cry.  She  had  to  be

strong for him. “Everything’s going to be okay.”

“They were monsters,” he said. “Real monsters. Earth spirits, right out
of Grandpa Tom’s stories—and the Earth Mother was angry with me. And
the giant, Tsul’kälû, breathing fire—” He focused on Piper again, his eyes
like broken glass, reflecting a crazy kind of light. “They said you were a
demigod. Your mother was …”

“Aphrodite,” Piper said. “Goddess of love.”
“I—I—” He took a shaky breath, then seemed to forget how to exhale.
Piper’s  friends  were  careful  not  to  watch.  Leo  fiddled  with  a  lug  nut
from his tool belt. Jason gazed at the valley below—the roads backing up
as mortals stopped their cars and gawked at the burning mountain. Gleeson
chewed on the stub of his carnation, and for once the satyr didn’t look in
the mood to yell or boast.

Tristan McLean wasn’t supposed to be seen like this. He was a star. He
was  confident,  stylish,  suave—always  in  control.  That  was  the  public

image  he  projected.  Piper  had  seen  the  image  falter  before.  But  this  was
different. Now it was broken, gone.

“I didn’t know about Mom,” Piper told him. “Not until you were taken.
When  we  found  out  where  you  were,  we  came  right  away.  My  friends
helped me. No one will hurt you again.”

Her  dad  couldn’t  stop  shivering.  “You’re  heroes—you  and  your
friends.  I  can’t  believe  it.  You’re  a  real hero,  not  like  me.  Not  playing  a
part. I’m so proud of you, Pipes.” But the words were muttered listlessly,
in a semi-trance.

He gazed down on the valley, and his grip on Piper’s hand went slack.

“Your mother never told me.”

“She thought it was for the best.” It sounded lame, even to Piper, and
no  amount  of  charmspeak  could  change  that.  But  she  didn’t  tell  her  dad
what Aphrodite had really worried about: If he has to spend the rest of his
life with those memories, knowing that gods and spirits walk the earth, it
will shatter him.

Piper felt inside the pocket of her jacket. The vial was still there, warm

to her touch.

But how could she erase his memories? Her dad finally knew who she
was. He was proud of her, and for once she was his hero, not the other way
around. He would never send her away now. They shared a secret.

How could she go back to the way things were?
She held his hand, speaking to him about small things—her time at the
Wilderness  School,  her  cabin  at  Camp  Half-Blood.  She  told  him  how
Coach Hedge ate carnations and got knocked on his butt on Mount Diablo,
how Leo had tamed a dragon, and how Jason had made wolves back down
by  talking  in  Latin.  Her  friends  smiled  reluctantly  as  she  recounted  their
adventures.  Her  dad  seemed  to  relax  as  she  talked,  but  he  didn’t  smile.
Piper wasn’t even sure he heard her.

As they passed over the hills into the East Bay, Jason tensed. He leaned

so far out the doorway Piper was afraid he’d fall.

He pointed. “What is that?”
Piper looked down, but she didn’t see anything interesting—just hills,
woods,  houses,  little  roads  snaking  through  the  canyons.  A  highway  cut

through  a  tunnel  in  the  hills,  connecting  the  East  Bay  with  the  inland
towns.

“Where?” Piper asked.
“That road,” he said. “The one that goes through the hills.”
Piper picked up the com helmet the pilot had given her and relayed the

question over the radio. The answer wasn’t very exciting.

“She  says  it’s  Highway  24,”  Piper  reported.  “That’s  the  Caldecott

Tunnel. Why?”

Jason  stared  intently  at  the  tunnel  entrance,  but  he  said  nothing.  It
disappeared  from  view  as  they  flew  over  downtown  Oakland,  but  Jason
still stared into the distance, his expression almost as unsettled as Piper’s
dad’s.

“Monsters,” her dad said, a tear tracing his cheek. “I live in a world of

monsters.”

AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL DIDN’T WANT TO let an unscheduled helicopter land
at the Oakland Airport—until Piper got on the radio. Then it turned out to
be no problem.

They unloaded on the tarmac, and everyone looked at Piper.
“What now?” Jason asked her.
She  felt  uncomfortable.  She  didn’t  want  to  be  in  charge,  but  for  her
dad’s  sake,  she  had  to  appear  confident.  She  had  no  plan.  She’d  just
remembered that he’d flown into Oakland, which meant his private plane
would  still  be  here.  But  today  was  the  solstice.  They  had  to  save  Hera.
They had no idea where to go or if they were even too late. And how could
she leave her dad in this condition?

“First  thing,”  she  said.  “I—I  have  to  get  my  dad  home.  I’m  sorry,

guys.”

Their faces fell.
“Oh,” Leo said. “I mean, absolutely. He needs you right now. We can

take it from here.”

“Pipes,  no.”  Her  dad  had  been  sitting  in  the  helicopter  doorway,  a
blanket  around  his  shoulders.  But  he  stumbled  to  his  feet.  “You  have  a
mission. A quest. I can’t—”

“I’ll take care of him,” said Coach Hedge.
Piper  stared  at  him.  The  satyr  was  the  last  person  she’d  expected  to

offer. “You?” she asked.

“I’m a protector,” Gleeson said. “That’s my job, not fighting.”
He sounded a little crestfallen, and Piper realized maybe she shouldn’t
have recounted how he got knocked unconscious in the last battle. In his
own way, maybe the satyr was as sensitive as her dad.

Then  Hedge  straightened,  and  set  his  jaw.  “Of  course,  I’m  good  at

fighting, too.” He glared at them all, daring them to argue.

“Yes,” Jason said.
“Terrifying,” Leo agreed.
The coach grunted. “But I’m a protector, and I can do this. Your dad’s

right, Piper. You need to carry on with the quest.”

“But …” Piper’s eyes stung, as if she were back in the forest fire. “Dad

…”

He  held  out  his  arms,  and  she  hugged  him.  He  felt  frail.  He  was

trembling so much, it scared her.

“Let’s give  them a minute,” Jason said,  and they  took  the  pilot  a few

yards down the tarmac.

“I can’t believe it,” her dad said. “I failed you.”
“No, Dad!”
“The things they did, Piper, the visions they showed me …”
“Dad, listen.” She took out the vial from her pocket. “Aphrodite gave
me  this,  for  you.  It  takes  away  your  recent  memories.  It’ll  make  it  like
none of this ever happened.”

He  gazed  at  her,  as  if  translating  her  words  from  a  foreign  language.

“But you’re a hero. I would forget that?”

“Yes,”  Piper  whispered.  She  forced  an  assuring  tone  into  her  voice.

“Yes, you would. It’ll be like—like before.”

He closed his eyes and took a shaky breath. “I love you, Piper. I always
have.  I—I  sent  you  away  because  I  didn’t  want  you  exposed  to  my  life.
Not the way I grew up—the poverty, the hopelessness. Not the Hollywood
insanity either. I thought—I thought I was protecting you.” He managed a
brittle laugh. “As if your life without me was better, or safer.”

Piper took his hand. She’d heard him talk about protecting her before,
but she’d never believed it. She’d always thought he was just rationalizing.
Her  dad  seemed  so  confident  and  easygoing,  like  his  life  was  a  joyride.
How could he claim she needed protecting from that?

Finally Piper understood he’d been acting for her benefit, trying not to
show how scared and insecure he was. He really had been trying to protect
her. And now his ability to cope had been destroyed.

She  offered  him  the  vial.  “Take  it.  Maybe  someday  we’ll  be  ready  to

talk about this again. When you’re ready.”

“When  I’m  ready,”  he  murmured.  “You  make  it  sound  like—like  I’m
the one growing up. I’m supposed to be the parent.” He took the vial. His
eyes glimmered with a small desperate hope. “I love you, Pipes.”

“Love you, too, Dad.”
He  drank  the  pink  liquid.  His  eyes  rolled  up  into  his  head,  and  he

slumped forward. Piper caught him, and her friends ran up to help.

“Got him,” Hedge said. The satyr stumbled, but he was strong enough
to hold Tristan McLean upright. “I already asked our ranger friend to call
up his plane. It’s on the way now. Home address?”

Piper  was  about  to  tell  him.  Then  a  thought  occurred  to  her.  She
checked  her  dad’s  pocket,  and  his  BlackBerry  was  still  there.  It  seemed
bizarre  that  he’d  still  have  something  so  normal  after  all  he’d  been
through, but she guessed Enceladus hadn’t seen any reason to take it.

“Everything’s on here,”  Piper  said.  “Address, his  chauffeur’s number.

Just watch out for Jane.”

Hedge’s eyes lit up, like he sensed a possible fight. “Who’s Jane?”
By  the  time  Piper  explained,  her  dad’s  sleek  white  Gulf-stream  had

taxied next to the helicopter.

Hedge and the flight attendant got Piper’s dad on board. Then Hedge
came  down  one  last  time  to  say  his  good-byes.  He  gave  Piper  a  hug  and
glared at Jason and Leo. “You cupcakes take care of this girl, you hear? Or
I’m gonna make you do push-ups.”

“You got it, Coach,” Leo said, a smile tugging at his mouth.
“No push-ups,” Jason promised.
Piper gave the old satyr one more hug. “Thank you, Gleeson. Take care

of him, please.”

“I  got  this,  McLean,”  he  assured  her.  “They  got  root  beer  and  veggie
enchiladas on this flight, and one hundred percent linen napkins—yum! I
could get used to this.”

Trotting up the stairs, he lost one shoe, and his hoof was visible for just
a  second.  The  flight  attendant’s  eyes  widened,  but  she  looked  away  and
pretended nothing was wrong. Piper figured she’d probably seen stranger
things, working for Tristan McLean.

When  the  plane  was  heading  down  the  runaway,  Piper  started  to  cry.
She’d  been  holding  it  in  too  long  and  she  just  couldn’t  anymore.  Before
she knew it, Jason was hugging her, and Leo stood uncomfortably nearby,
pulling Kleenex out of his tool belt.

“Your dad’s in good hands,” Jason said. “You did amazing.”
She sobbed into his shirt. She allowed herself to be held for six deep
breaths.  Seven.  Then  she  couldn’t  indulge  herself  anymore.  They  needed
her. The helicopter pilot was already looking uncomfortable, like she was
starting to wonder why she’d flown them here.
“Thank you, guys,” Piper said. “I—”
She wanted to tell them how much they meant to her. They’d sacrificed
everything, maybe even their quest, to help her. She couldn’t repay them,
couldn’t  even  put  her  gratitude  into  words.  But  her  friends’  expressions
told her they understood.

Then,  right  next  to  Jason,  the  air  began  to  shimmer.  At  first  Piper
thought it was heat off the tarmac, or maybe gas fumes from the helicopter,
but  she’d  seen  something  like  this  before  in  Medea’s  fountain.  It  was  an
Iris  message.  An  image  appeared  in  the  air—a  dark-haired  girl  in  silver
winter camouflage, holding a bow.

Jason stumbled back in surprise. “Thalia!”
“Thank the gods,” said the Hunter. The scene behind her was hard to
make out, but Piper heard yelling, metal clashing on metal, and explosions.

“We’ve found her,” Thalia said. “Where are you?”
“Oakland,” he said. “Where are you?”
“The Wolf House! Oakland is good; you’re not too far. We’re holding
off  the  giant’s  minions,  but  we  can’t  hold  them  forever.  Get  here  before
sunset, or it’s all over.”

“Then  it’s  not  too  late?”  Piper  cried.  Hope  surged  through  her,  but

Thalia’s expression quickly dampened it.

“Not  yet,”  Thalia  said.  “But  Jason—it’s  worse  than  I  realized.

Porphyrion is rising. Hurry.”

“But where is the Wolf House?” he pleaded.
“Our  last  trip,”  Thalia  said,  her  image  starting  to  flicker.  “The  park.

Jack London. Remember?”

This made no sense to Piper, but Jason looked like he’d been shot. He

tottered, his face pale, and the Iris message disappeared.

“Bro, you all right?” Leo asked. “You know where she is?”
“Yes,” Jason said. “Sonoma Valley. Not far. Not by air.”
Piper turned to the ranger pilot, who’d been watching all this with an

increasingly puzzled expression.

“Ma’am,” Piper said with her best smile. “You don’t mind helping us

one more time, do you?”

“I don’t mind,” the pilot agreed.
“We can’t take  a mortal into battle,” Jason said.  “It’s too  dangerous.”

He turned to Leo. “Do you think you could fly this thing?”

“Um  …”  Leo’s  expression  didn’t  exactly  reassure  Piper.  But  then  he
put his hand on the side of the helicopter, concentrating hard, as if listening
to the machine.

“Bell 412HP utility helicopter,” Leo said. “Composite four-blade main
rotor,  cruising  speed  twenty-two  knots,  service  ceiling  twenty-thousand
feet. The tank is near full. Sure, I can fly it.”

Piper  smiled  at  the  ranger  again.  “You  don’t  have  a  problem  with  an
under-aged unlicensed kid borrowing your copter, do you? We’ll return it.”
“I—” The pilot nearly choked on the words, but she got them out: “I

don’t have a problem with that.”

Leo grinned. “Hop in, kids. Uncle Leo’s gonna take you for a ride.”

FLY A HELICOPTER? SURE, WHY NOT. Leo had done plenty of crazier things
that week.

The sun was going down as they flew north over the Richmond Bridge,
and Leo couldn’t believe the day had gone so quickly. Once again, nothing
like ADHD and a good fight to the death to make time fly.

Piloting the  chopper, he went back and forth between confidence and
panic. If he didn’t think about it, he found himself automatically flipping
the  right  switches,  checking  the  altimeter,  easing  back  on  the  stick,  and
flying  straight.  If  he  allowed  himself  to  consider  what  he  was  doing,  he
started freaking out. He imagined his Aunt Rosa yelling at him in Spanish,
telling him he was a delinquent lunatic who was going to crash and burn.
Part of him suspected she was right.

“Going okay?” Piper asked from the copilot’s seat. She sounded more

nervous than he was, so Leo put on a brave face.

“Aces,” he said. “So what’s the Wolf House?”
Jason  knelt  between  their  seats.  “An  abandoned  mansion  in  the

Sonoma Valley. A demigod built it—Jack London.”
Leo couldn’t place the name. “He an actor?”
“Writer,”  Piper  said.  “Adventure  stuff,  right?  Call  of  the  Wild? White

Fang?”

“Yeah,” Jason said.  “He  was  a son of Mercury—I mean,  Hermes.  He
was  an  adventurer,  traveled  the  world.  He  was  even  a  hobo  for  a  while.
Then he made a fortune writing. He bought a big ranch in the country and
decided to build this huge mansion—the Wolf House.”

“Named that ’cause he wrote about wolves?” Leo guessed.
“Partially,”  Jason  said.  “But  the  site,  and  the  reason  he  wrote  about
wolves—he was dropping hints about his personal experience. There’re a
lot of holes in his life story—how he was born, who his dad was, why he

wandered around so much—stuff you can only explain if you know he was
a demigod.”

The  bay  slipped  behind  them,  and  the  helicopter  continued  north.

Ahead of them, yellow hills rolled out as far as Leo could see.
“So Jack London went to Camp Half-Blood,” Leo guessed.
“No,” Jason said. “No, he didn’t.”
“Bro,  you’re  freaking  me  out  with  the  mysterious  talk.  Are  you

remembering your past or not?”

“Pieces,” Jason said. “Only pieces. None of it good. The Wolf House is
on sacred ground. It’s where London started his journey as a child—where
he found out he was a demigod. That’s why he returned there. He thought
he could live there, claim that land, but it wasn’t meant for him. The Wolf
House was cursed. It burned in a fire a week before he and his wife were
supposed to move in. A few years later, London died, and his ashes were
buried on the site.”

“So,” Piper said, “how do you know all this?”
A  shadow  crossed  Jason’s  face.  Probably  just  a  cloud,  but  Leo  could

swear the shape looked like an eagle.

“I started my journey there too,” Jason said. “It’s a powerful place for
demigods, a dangerous place. If Gaea can claim it, use its power to entomb
Hera  on  the  solstice  and  raise  Porphyrion—that  might  be  enough  to
awaken the earth goddess fully.”

Leo kept his hand on the joystick, guiding the chopper at full speed—
racing  toward  the  north.  He  could  see  some  weather  ahead—a  spot  of
darkness like a cloudbank or a storm, right where they were going.

Piper’s  dad  had  called  him  a  hero  earlier.  And  Leo  couldn’t  believe
some  of  the  things  he’d  done—smacking  around  Cyclopes,  disarming
exploding doorbells, battling six-armed ogres with construction equipment.
They seemed like they had happened to another person. He was just Leo
Valdez, an orphaned kid from Houston. He’d spent his life running away,
and part of him still wanted to run. What was he thinking, flying toward a
cursed mansion to fight more evil monsters?

His mom’s voice echoed in his head: Nothing is unfixable.
Except the fact that you’re gone forever, Leo thought.

Seeing  Piper  and  her  dad  back  together  had  really  driven  that  home.
Even  if  Leo  survived  this  quest  and  saved  Hera,  Leo  wouldn’t  have  any
happy  reunions.  He  wouldn’t  be  going  back  to  a  loving  family.  He
wouldn’t see his mom.

The  helicopter  shuddered.  Metal  creaked,  and  Leo  could  almost

imagine the tapping was Morse code: Not the end. Not the end.

He  leveled  out  the  chopper,  and  the  creaking  stopped.  He  was  just
hearing  things.  He  couldn’t  dwell  on  his  mom,  or  the  idea  that  kept
bugging him—that Gaea was bringing souls back from the Underworld—
so  why  couldn’t  he  make  some  good  come  out  of  it?  Thinking  like  that
would drive him crazy. He had a job to do.

He  let  his  instincts  take  over—just  like  flying  the  helicopter.  If  he
thought  about  the  quest  too  much,  or  what  might  happen  afterward,  he’d
panic. The trick was not to think—just get through it.

“Thirty minutes out,” he told his friends, though he wasn’t sure how he

knew. “If you want to get some rest, now’s a good time.”

Jason  strapped  himself  into  the  back  of  the  helicopter  and  passed  out
almost immediately. Piper and Leo stayed wide-awake.

After a few minutes of awkward silence, Leo said, “Your dad’ll be fine,

you know. Nobody’s gonna mess with him with that crazy goat around.”

Piper glanced over, and Leo was struck by how much she’d changed.
Not just physically. Her presence was stronger. She seemed more … here.
At  Wilderness  School  she’d  spent  the  semester  trying  not  to  be  seen,
hiding out in the back row of the classroom, the back of the bus, the corner
of the lunchroom as far as possible from the loud kids. Now she would be
impossible to miss. It didn’t matter what she was wearing —you’d have to
look at her.

“My dad,” she said thoughtfully. “Yeah, I know. I was thinking about

Jason. I’m worried about him.”

Leo nodded. The closer they got to that bank of dark clouds, the more
Leo  worried,  too.  “He’s  starting  to  remember.  That’s  got  to  make  him  a
little edgy.”

“But what if … what if he’s a different person?”

Leo had had the same thought. If the Mist could affect their memories,
could Jason’s whole personality be an illusion, too? If their friend wasn’t
their  friend,  and  they  were  heading  into  a  cursed  mansion—a  dangerous
place  for  demigods—what  would  happen  if  Jason’s  full  memory  came
back in the middle of a battle?

“Nah,”  Leo  decided.  “After  all  we’ve  been  through?  I  can’t  see  it.

We’re a team. Jason can handle it.”

Piper  smoothed  her  blue  dress,  which  was  tattered  and  burned  from
their  fight  on  Mount  Diablo.  “I  hope  you’re  right.  I  need  him  …”  She
cleared her throat. “I mean I need to trust him…”

“I know,” Leo said. After seeing her dad break down, Leo understood
Piper  couldn’t  afford  to  lose  Jason  as  well.  She’d  just  watched  Tristan
McLean,  her  cool  suave  movie  star  dad,  reduced  to  near  insanity.  Leo
could barely stand to watch that, but for Piper—Wow, Leo couldn’t even
imagine.  He  figured  that  would  make  her  insecure  about  herself,  too.  If
weakness  was  inherited,  she’d  be  wondering,  could  she  break  down  the
same way her dad did?

“Hey,  don’t  worry,”  Leo  said.  “Piper,  you’re  the  strongest,  most
powerful beauty queen I’ve ever met. You can trust yourself. For what it’s
worth, you can trust me too.”

The helicopter dipped in a wind shear, and Leo almost jumped out of

his skin. He cursed and righted the chopper.

Piper laughed nervously. “Trust you, huh?”
“Ah, shut up, already.” But he grinned at her, and for a second, it felt

like he was just relaxing comfortably with a friend.

Then they hit the storm clouds.

AT  FIRST,  LEO  THOUGHT  ROCKS  WERE  pelting  the  windshield.  Then  he
realized  it  was  sleet.  Frost  built  up  around  the  edges  of  the  glass,  and
slushy waves of ice blotted out his view.

“An  ice  storm?”  Piper  shouted  over  the  engine  and  the  wind.  “Is  it

supposed to be this cold in Sonoma?”

Leo  wasn’t  sure,  but  something  about  this  storm  seemed  conscious,

malevolent—like it was intentionally slamming them.

Jason  woke  up  quickly.  He  crawled  forward,  grabbing  their  seats  for

balance. “We’ve got to be getting close.”

Leo was too busy wrestling with the stick to reply. Suddenly it wasn’t
so easy to drive the chopper. Its movements turned sluggish and jerky. The
whole machine shuddered in the icy wind. The helicopter probably hadn’t
been prepped for cold-weather flying. The controls refused to respond, and
they started to lose altitude.

Below them, the ground was a dark quilt of trees and fog. The ridge of
a hill loomed in front of them and Leo yanked the stick, just clearing the
treetops.

“There!” Jason shouted.
A  small  valley  opened  up  before  them,  with  the  murky  shape  of  a
building in the middle. Leo aimed the helicopter straight for it. All around
them were flashes of light that reminded Leo of the tracer fire at Midas’s
compound.  Trees  cracked  and  exploded  at  the  edges  of  the  clearing.
Shapes moved through the mist. Combat seemed to be everywhere.

He  set  down  the  helicopter  in  an  icy  field  about  fifty  yards  from  the
house  and  killed  the  engine.  He  was  about  to  relax  when  he  heard  a
whistling sound and saw a dark shape hurtling toward them out of the mist.

“Out!” Leo screamed.

They leaped from the helicopter and barely cleared the rotors before a
massive  BOOM  shook  the  ground,  knocking  Leo  off  his  feet  and
splattering ice all over him.

He got up shakily and saw that the world’s largest snowball—a chunk
of  snow,  ice,  and  dirt  the  size  of  a  garage—had  completely  flattened  the
Bell 412.

“You  all  right?”  Jason  ran  up  to  him,  Piper  at  his  side.  They  both

looked fine except for being speckled with snow and mud.

“Yeah.”  Leo  shivered.  “Guess  we  owe  that  ranger  lady  a  new

helicopter.”

Piper pointed south. “Fighting’s over there.” Then she frowned. “No …

it’s all around us.”

She was right. The sounds of combat rang across the valley. The snow
and  mist  made  it  hard  to  tell  for  sure,  but  there  seemed  to  be  a  circle  of
fighting all around the Wolf House.

Behind  them  loomed  Jack  London’s  dream  home—a  massive  ruin  of
red and gray stones and rough-hewn timber beams. Leo could imagine how
it had looked before it burned down—a combination log cabin and castle,
like  a  billionaire  lumberjack  might  build.  But  in  the  mist  and  sleet,  the
place had a lonely, haunted feel. Leo could totally believe the ruins were
cursed.

“Jason!” a girl’s voice called.
Thalia appeared from the fog, her parka caked with snow. Her bow was
in  her  hand,  and  her  quiver  was  almost  empty.  She  ran  toward  them,  but
made it only a few steps before a six-armed ogre—one of the Earthborn—
burst out of the storm behind her, a raised club in each hand.

“Look out!”  Leo  yelled.  They rushed  to  help,  but  Thalia had it under
control. She launched herself into a flip, notching an arrow as she pivoted
like  a  gymnast  and  landed  in  a  kneeling  position.  The  ogre  got  a  silver
arrow right between the eyes and melted into a pile of clay.

Thalia  stood  and  retrieved  her  arrow,  but  the  point  had  snapped  off.
“That  was  my  last  one.”  She  kicked  the  pile  of  clay  resentfully.  “Stupid
ogre.”

“Nice shot, though,” Leo said.

Thalia ignored him as usual (which no doubt meant she thought he was
as cool as ever). She hugged Jason and nodded to Piper. “Just in time. My
Hunters are holding a perimeter around the mansion, but we’ll be overrun
any minute.”

“By Earthborn?” Jason asked.
“And wolves—Lycaon’s  minions.”  Thalia  blew  a  fleck  of  ice  off  her

nose. “Also storm spirits—”

“But we gave them to Aeolus!” Piper protested.
“Who  tried  to  kill  us,”  Leo  reminded  her.  “Maybe  he’s  helping  Gaea

again.”

“I don’t know,” Thalia said. “But the monsters keep re-forming almost
as  fast  as  we  can  kill  them.  We  took  the  Wolf  House  with  no  problem:
surprised the guards and sent them straight to Tartarus. But then this freak
snowstorm  blew  in.  Wave  after  wave  of  monsters  started  attacking.  Now
we’re surrounded.  I  don’t know who or what is  leading  the  assault,  but  I
think  they  planned  this.  It  was  a  trap  to  kill  anyone  who  tried  to  rescue
Hera.”

“Where is she?” Jason asked.
“Inside,” Thalia said. “We tried to free her, but we can’t figure out how
to  break  the  cage.  It’s  only  a  few  minutes  until  the  sun  goes  down.  Hera
thinks  that’s  the  moment  when  Porphyrion  will  be  reborn.  Plus,  most
monsters are stronger at night. If we don’t free Hera soon—”

She didn’t need to finish the thought.
Leo, Jason, and Piper followed her into the ruined mansion.

Jason stepped over the threshold and immediately collapsed.

“Hey!” Leo caught him. “None of that, man. What’s wrong?”
“This place …” Jason shook his head. “Sorry … It came rushing back

to me.”

“So you have been here,” Piper said.
“We  both  have,”  Thalia  said.  Her  expression  was  grim,  like  she  was
reliving someone’s death. “This is where my mom took us when Jason was
a child. She left him here, told me he was dead. He just disappeared.”

“She gave me to the wolves,” Jason murmured. “At Hera’s insistence.

She gave me to Lupa.”

“That part I didn’t know.” Thalia frowned. “Who is Lupa?”
An explosion shook the building. Just outside, a blue mushroom cloud
billowed up, raining snowflakes and ice like a nuclear blast made of cold
instead of heat.

“Maybe this isn’t the time for questions,” Leo suggested. “Show us the

goddess.”

Once inside, Jason seemed to get his bearings. The house was built in a
giant U, and Jason led them between the two wings to an outside courtyard
with an empty reflecting pool. At the bottom of the pool, just as Jason had
described from his dream, two spires of rock and root tendrils had cracked
through the foundation.

One  of  the  spires  was  much  bigger—a  solid  dark  mass  about  twenty
feet high, and to Leo it looked like a stone body bag. Underneath the mass
of fused tendrils he could make out the shape of a head, wide shoulders, a
massive chest and arms, like the creature was stuck waist deep in the earth.
No, not stuck—rising.

On the opposite end of the pool, the other spire was smaller and more
loosely woven. Each tendril was as thick as a telephone pole, with so little
space between them that Leo doubted he could’ve gotten his arm through.
Still, he could see inside. And in the center of the cage stood Tía Callida.

She  looked  exactly  like  Leo  remembered:  dark  hair  covered  with  a
shawl,  the  black  dress  of  a  widow,  a  wrinkled  face  with  glinting,  scary
eyes.

She didn’t glow or radiate any sort of power. She looked like a regular

mortal woman, his good old psychotic babysitter.

Leo dropped into the pool and approached the cage. “Hola, Tía.  Little

bit of trouble?”

She  crossed  her  arms  and  sighed  in  exasperation.  “Don’t  inspect  me

like I’m one of your machines, Leo Valdez. Get me out of here!”

Thalia  stepped  next  to  him  and  looked  at  the  cage  with  distaste—or
maybe  she  was  looking  at  the  goddess.  “We  tried  everything  we  could
think of, Leo, but maybe my heart wasn’t in it. If it was up to me, I’d just
leave her in there.”

“Ohh, Thalia Grace,” the goddess said. “When I get out of here, you’ll

be sorry you were ever born.”

“Save it!” Thalia snapped. “You’ve been nothing but a curse to every
child  of  Zeus  for  ages.  You  sent  a  bunch  of  intestinally  challenged  cows
after my friend Annabeth—”
“She was disrespectful!”
“You dropped a statue on my legs.”
“It was an accident!”
“And  you  took  my  brother!”  Thalia’s  voice  cracked  with  emotion.

“Here—on this spot. You ruined our lives. We should leave you to Gaea!”

“Hey,” Jason intervened. “Thalia—Sis—I know. But this isn’t the time.

You should help your Hunters.”

Thalia clenched her jaw. “Fine. For you, Jason. But if you ask me, she

isn’t worth it.”

Thalia turned, leaped out of the pool, and stormed from the building.
Leo  turned  to  Hera  with  grudging  respect.  “Intestinally  challenged

cows?”

“Focus  on  the  cage,  Leo,”  she  grumbled.  “And  Jason—you  are  wiser

than your sister. I chose my champion well.”

“I’m  not  your  champion,  lady,”  Jason  said.  “I’m  only  helping  you
because  you  stole  my  memories  and  you’re  better  than  the  alternative.
Speaking of which, what’s going on with that?”

He nodded to the other spire that looked like the king-size granite body
bag. Was Leo imagining it, or had it grown taller since they’d gotten here?
“That, Jason,” Hera said, “is the king of the giants being reborn.”
“Gross,” Piper said.
“Indeed,”  Hera  said.  “Porphyrion,  the  strongest  of  his  kind.  Gaea
needed  a  great  deal  of  power  to  raise  him  again  —my power.  For  weeks
I’ve grown weaker as my essence was used to grow him a new form.”

“So you’re like a heat lamp,” Leo guessed. “Or fertilizer.”
The goddess glared at him, but Leo didn’t care. This old lady had been
making his life miserable since he was a baby. He totally had rights to rag
on her.

“Joke all you wish,” Hera  said  in  a clipped  tone.  “But  at  sundown,  it
will  be  too  late.  The  giant  will  awake.  He  will  offer  me  a  choice:  marry

him, or be consumed by the earth. And I cannot marry him. We will all be
destroyed. And as we die, Gaea will awaken.”

Leo frowned at the giant’s spire. “Can’t we blow it up or something?”
“Without  me,  you  do  not  have  the  power,”  Hera  said.  “You  might  as

well try to destroy a mountain.”

“Done that once today,” Jason said.
“Just hurry up and let me out!” Hera demanded.
Jason scratched his head. “Leo, can you do it?”
“I  don’t  know.”  Leo  tried  not  to  panic.  “Besides,  if  she’s  a  goddess,

why hasn’t she busted herself out?”

Hera paced furiously around her cage, cursing in Ancient Greek. “Use
your  brain,  Leo  Valdez.  I  picked  you  because  you’re  intelligent.  Once
trapped,  a  god’s  power  is  useless.  Your  own  father  trapped  me  once  in  a
golden  chair.  It  was  humiliating!  I  had  to  beg—beg him  for  my  freedom
and apologize for throwing him off Olympus.”

“Sounds fair,” Leo said.
Hera gave him the godly stink-eye. “I’ve watched you since you were a
child, son of Hephaestus, because I knew you could aid me at this moment.
If anyone can find a way to destroy this abomination, it is you.”

“But it’s not a machine. It’s like Gaea thrust her hand out of the ground
and …” Leo felt dizzy. The line of their prophecy came back to him: The
forge and dove shall break the cage.“Hold on. I do have an idea. Piper, I’m
going to need your help. And we’re going to need time.”

The air turned brittle with cold. The temperature dropped so fast, Leo’s
lips cracked and his breath changed to mist. Frost coated the walls of the
Wolf  House.  Venti  rushed  in  —but  instead  of  winged  men,  these  were
shaped like horses, with dark storm-cloud bodies and manes that crackled
with lightning. Some had silver arrows sticking out of their flanks. Behind
them came red-eyed wolves and the six-armed Earthborn.

Piper drew her dagger. Jason grabbed an ice-covered plank off the pool
floor.  Leo  reached  into  his  tool  belt,  but  he  was  so  shaken  up,  all  he
produced  was  a  tin  of  breath  mints.  He  shoved  them  back  in,  hoping
nobody had noticed, and drew a hammer instead.

One  of  the  wolves  padded  forward.  It  was  dragging  a  human-size
statue  by  the  leg.  At  the  edge  of  the  pool,  the  wolf  opened  its  maw  and

dropped  the  statue  for  them  to  see—an  ice  sculpture  of  a  girl,  an  archer
with short spiky hair and a surprised look on her face.

“Thalia!”  Jason  rushed  forward,  but  Piper  and  Leo  pulled  him  back.
The  ground  around  Thalia’s  statue  was  already  webbed  with  ice.  Leo
feared if Jason touched her, he might freeze too.

“Who did this?” Jason yelled. His body crackled with electricity. “I’ll

kill you myself!”

From  somewhere  behind  the  monsters,  Leo  heard  a  girl’s  laughter,
clear  and  cold.  She  stepped  out  of  the  mist  in  her  snowy  white  dress,  a
silver crown atop her long black hair. She regarded them with those deep
brown eyes Leo had thought were so beautiful in Quebec.

“Bon soir, mes amis,” said Khione, the goddess of snow. She gave Leo
a  frosty  smile.  “Alas,  son  of  Hephaestus,  you  say  you  need  time?  I’m
afraid time is one tool you do not have.”

AFTER THE FIGHT ON MOUNT DIABLO, Jason didn’t think he could ever feel
more afraid or devastated.

Now his sister was frozen at his feet. He was surrounded by monsters.
He’d  broken  his  golden  sword  and  replaced  it  with  a  piece  of  wood.  He
had approximately five minutes until the king of the giants busted out and
destroyed  them.  Jason  had  already  pulled  his  biggest  ace,  calling  down
Zeus’s  lightning  when  he’d  fought  Enceladus,  and  he  doubted  he’d  have
the strength or the cooperation from above to do it again. Which meant his
only assets were one whiny imprisoned goddess, one sort-of girlfriend with
a dagger, and Leo,  who apparently  thought he could  defeat the  armies  of
darkness with breath mints.

On  top  of  all  this,  Jason’s  worst  memories  were  flooding  back.  He
knew  for  certain  he’d  done  many  dangerous  things  in  his  life,  but  he’d
never been closer to death than he was right now.

The enemy was beautiful. Khione smiled, her dark eyes glittering, as a

dagger of ice grew in her hand.

“What’ve you done?” Jason demanded.
“Oh,  so  many  things,”  the  snow  goddess  purred.  “Your  sister’s  not
dead, if that’s what you mean. She and her Hunters will make fine toys for
our wolves. I thought we’d defrost them one at a time and hunt them down
for amusement. Let them be the prey for once.”

The wolves snarled appreciatively.
“Yes,  my  dears.”  Khione  kept  her  eyes  on  Jason.  “Your  sister  almost
killed  their  king,  you know. Lycaon’s off  in  a cave somewhere,  no doubt
licking his wounds, but his minions have joined us to take revenge for their
master. And soon Porphyrion will arise, and we shall rule the world.”

“Traitor!” Hera shouted. “You meddlesome, D-list goddess! You aren’t

worthy to pour my wine, much less rule the world.”

Khione  sighed.  “Tiresome  as  ever,  Queen  Hera.  I’ve  been  wanting  to

shut you up for millennia.”

Khione  waved  her  hand,  and  ice  encased  the  prison,  sealing  in  the

spaces between the earthen tendrils.

“That’s  better,”  the  snow  goddess  said.  “Now,  demigods,  about  your

death—”

“You’re the one who tricked Hera into coming here,” Jason said. “You

gave Zeus the idea of closing Olympus.”

The wolves snarled, and the storm spirits whinnied, ready to attack, but
Khione  held  up  her  hand.  “Patience,  my  loves.  If  he  wants  to  talk,  what
matter? The sun is setting, and time is on our side. Of course, Jason Grace.
Like snow, my voice is quiet and gentle, and very cold. It’s easy for me to
whisper to the other gods, especially when I am only confirming their own
deepest fears. I also whispered in Aeolus’s ear that he should issue an order
to kill demigods. It is a small service for Gaea, but I’m sure I will be well
rewarded when her sons the giants come to power.”

“You could’ve killed us in Quebec,” Jason said. “Why let us live?”
Khione wrinkled her nose. “Messy business, killing you in my father’s
house,  especially  when  he  insists  on  meeting  all  visitors.  I  did  try,  you
remember. It  would’ve been lovely if  he’d agreed  to  turn  you to  ice.  But
once he’d given you guarantee of safe passage, I couldn’t openly disobey
him. My father is an old fool. He lives in fear of Zeus and Aeolus, but he’s
still powerful. Soon enough, when my new masters have awakened, I will
depose  Boreas  and  take  the  throne  of  the  North  Wind,  but  not  just  yet.
Besides,  my  father  did  have  a  point.  Your  quest  was  suicidal.  I  fully
expected you to fail.”

“And to help us with that,” Leo said, “you knocked our dragon out of
the sky over Detroit. Those frozen wires in his head—that was your fault.
You’re gonna pay for that.”

“You’re  also  the  one  who  kept  Enceladus  informed  about  us,”  Piper

added. “We’ve been plagued by snowstorms the whole trip.”

“Yes, I feel so close to all of you now!” Khione said. “Once you made
it past Omaha, I decided to asked Lycaon to track you down so Jason could
die here, at the Wolf House.” Khione smiled at him. “You see, Jason, your
blood  spilled  on  this  sacred  ground  will  taint  it  for  generations.  Your
demigod brethren will be outraged, especially when they find the bodies of

these  two  from  Camp  Half-Blood.  They’ll  believe  the  Greeks  have
conspired with giants. It will be … delicious.”

Piper  and  Leo  didn’t  seem  to  understand  what  she  was  saying.  But
Jason knew. His memories were returning enough for him to realize how
dangerously effective Khione’s plan could be.

“You’ll set demigods against demigods,” he said.
“It’s so easy!” said Khione. “As I told you, I only encourage what you

would do anyway.”

“But  why?”  Piper  spread  her  hands.  “Khione,  you’ll  tear  the  world
apart.  The  giants  will  destroy  everything.  You  don’t  want  that.  Call  off
your monsters.”

then 

Khione  hesitated, 

laughed.  “Your  persuasive  powers  are
improving, girl. But I am a goddess. You can’t charm-speak me. We wind
gods are creatures of chaos! I’ll overthrow Aeolus and let the storms run
free. If we destroy the mortal world, all the better! They never honored me,
even  in  Greek  times.  Humans  and  their  talk  of  global  warming.  Pah!  I’ll
cool them down quickly enough. When we retake the ancient places, I will
cover the Acropolis in snow.”

“The  ancient  places.”  Leo’s  eyes  widened.  “That’s  what  Enceladus

meant about destroy the roots of the gods. He meant Greece.”

“You  could  join  me,  son  of  Hephaestus,”  Khione  said.  “I  know  you
find me beautiful. It would be enough for my plan if these other two were
to die. Reject that ridiculous destiny the Fates have given you. Live and be
my champion, instead. Your skills would be quite useful.”

Leo  looked  stunned.  He  glanced  behind  him,  like  Khione  might  be
talking to somebody else. For a second Jason was worried. He figured Leo
didn’t have beautiful goddesses make him offers like this every day.

Then  Leo  laughed  so  hard,  he  doubled  over.  “Yeah,  join  you.  Right.
Until  you  get  bored  of  me  and  turn  me  into  a  Leosicle?  Lady,  nobody
messes with my dragon and gets away with it. I can’t believe I thought you
were hot.”

Khione’s  face  turned  red.  “Hot?  You  dare  insult  me?  I  am  cold,  Leo

Valdez. Very, very cold.”

She  shot  a  blast  of  wintry  sleet  at  the  demigods,  but  Leo  held  up  his
hand. A wall of fire roared to life in front of them, and the snow dissolved

in a steamy cloud.

Leo  grinned.  “See,  lady,  that’s  what  happens  to  snow  in  Texas.  It—

freaking—melts.”

Khione  hissed.  “Enough  of  this.  Hera  is  failing.  Porphyrion  is  rising.

Kill the demigods. Let them be our king’s first meal!”

Jason  hefted  his  icy  wooden  plank—a  stupid  weapon  to  die  fighting

with—and the monsters charged.

A WOLF LAUNCHED ITSELF AT JASON. He stepped back and swung his scrap
wood  into  the  beast’s  snout  with  a  satisfying  crack.  Maybe  only  silver
could  kill  it,  but  a  good  old-fashioned  board  could  still  give  it  a  Tylenol
headache.

He  turned  toward  the  sound  of  hooves  and  saw  a  storm  spirit  horse
bearing  down  on  him.  Jason  concentrated  and  summoned  the  wind.  Just
before  the  spirit  could  trample  him,  Jason  launched  himself  into  the  air,
grabbed the horse’s smoky neck, and pirouetted onto its back.

The  storm  spirit  reared.  It  tried  to  shake  Jason,  then  tried  to  dissolve
into mist to lose him; but somehow Jason stayed on. He willed the horse to
remain in solid form, and the horse seemed unable to refuse. Jason could
feel it fighting against him. He could sense its raging thoughts—complete
chaos  straining  to  break  free.  It  took  all  Jason’s  willpower  to  impose  his
own wishes and bring  the  horse  under control.  He  thought about  Aeolus,
overseeing thousands and thousands of spirits like this, some much worse.
No wonder the Master of the Winds had gone a little mad after centuries of
that pressure. But Jason had only one spirit to master, and he had to win.

“You’re mine now,” Jason said.
The horse bucked, but Jason held fast. Its mane flickered as it circled
around  the  empty  pool,  its  hooves  causing  miniature  thunderstorms—
tempests—whenever they touched.

“Tempest?” Jason said. “Is that your name?”
The horse spirit shook its mane, evidently pleased to be recognized.
“Fine,” Jason said. “Now, let’s fight.”
He charged into battle, swinging his icy piece of wood, knocking aside
wolves  and  plunging  straight  through  other  venti.  Tempest  was  a  strong
spirit, and every time he plowed through one of his brethren, he discharged
so much electricity, the other spirit vaporized into a harmless cloud of mist.

Through  the  chaos,  Jason  caught  glimpses  of  his  friends.  Piper  was
surrounded by Earthborn, but she seemed to be holding her own. She was
so impressive-looking as she fought, almost glowing with beauty, that the
Earthborn stared at  her in  awe,  forgetting  that they  were  supposed to  kill
her.  They’d  lower  their  clubs  and  watch  dumbfounded  as  she  smiled  and
charged  them.  They’d  smile  back—until  she  sliced  them  apart  with  her
dagger, and they melted into mounds of mud.

Leo had taken on Khione herself. While fighting a goddess should’ve
been suicide, Leo was the right man for the job. She kept summoning ice
daggers  to  throw  at  him,  blasts  of  winter  air,  tornadoes  of  snow.  Leo
burned  through  all  of  it.  His  whole  body  flickered  with  red  tongues  of
flame  like he’d been doused with  gasoline.  He  advanced  on the  goddess,
using two silver-tipped ball-peen hammers to smash any monsters that got
in his way.

Jason  realized  that  Leo  was  the  only  reason  they  were  still  alive.  His
fiery aura was heating up the whole courtyard, countering Khione’s winter
magic. Without him, they would’ve been frozen like the Hunters long ago.
Wherever  Leo  went,  ice  melted  off  the  stones.  Even  Thalia  started  to
defrost a little when Leo stepped near her.

Khione  slowly  backed  away.  Her  expression  went  from  enraged  to

shocked to slightly panicked as Leo got closer.

Jason  was  running  out  of  enemies.  Wolves  lay  in  dazed  heaps.  Some
slunk  away  into  the  ruins,  yelping  from  their  wounds.  Piper  stabbed  the
last  Earthborn, who toppled to  the  ground in  a pile of sludge.  Jason rode
Tempest through the last ventus, breaking it into vapor. Then he wheeled
around and saw Leo bearing down on the goddess of snow.

“You’re  too  late,”  Khione  snarled.  “He’s  awake!  And  don’t  think
you’ve won anything here, demigods. Hera’s plan will never work. You’ll
be at each other’s throats before you can ever stop us.”

Leo  set  his  hammers  ablaze  and  threw  them  at  the  goddess,  but  she
turned  into  snow—a  white  powdery  image  of  herself.  Leo’s  hammers
slammed  into  the  snow  woman,  breaking  it  into  a  steaming  mound  of
mush.

Piper was breathing hard, but she smiled up at Jason. “Nice horse.”
Tempest reared on his hind legs, arcing electricity across his hooves. A

complete show-off.

Then  Jason  heard  a  cracking  sound  behind  him.  The  melting  ice  on
Hera’s cage sloughed off in a curtain of slush, and the goddess called, “Oh,
don’t mind me! Just the queen of the heavens, dying over here!”

Jason  dismounted  and  told  Tempest  to  stay  put.  The  three  demigods

jumped into the pool and ran to the spire.

Leo frowned. “Uh, Tía Callida, are you getting shorter?”
“No, you dolt! The earth is claiming me. Hurry!”
As much as Jason disliked Hera, what he saw inside the cage alarmed
him.  Not  only  was  Hera  sinking,  the  ground  was  rising  around  her  like
water  in  a  tank.  Liquid  rock  had  already  covered  her  shins.  “The  giant
wakes!” Hera warned. “You only have seconds!”

“On it,” Leo said. “Piper, I need your help. Talk to the cage.”
“What?” she said.
“Talk  to  it.  Use  everything  you’ve  got.  Convince  Gaea  to  sleep.  Lull
her into a daze. Just slow her down, try to get the tendrils to loosen while I
—”

“Right!”  Piper  cleared  her  throat  and  said,  “Hey,  Gaea.  Nice  night,

huh? Boy, I’m tired. How about you? Ready for some sleep?”

The  more  she  talked,  the  more  confident  she  sounded.  Jason  felt  his
own  eyes  getting  heavy,  and  he  had  to  force  himself  not  to  focus  on  her
words.  It  seemed  to  have  some  effect  on  the  cage.  The  mud  was  rising
more  slowly.  The  tendrils  seemed  to  soften  just  a  little—becoming  more
like tree root than rock. Leo pulled a circular saw out of his tool belt. How
it fit in there, Jason had no idea. Then Leo looked at the cord and grunted
in frustration. “I don’t have anywhere to plug it in!”

The spirit horse Tempest jumped into the pit and whinnied.
“Really?” Jason asked.
Tempest dipped his head and trotted over to Leo. Leo looked dubious,
but  he  held  up  the  plug,  and  a  breeze  whisked  it  into  the  horse’s  flank.
Lighting sparked, connecting with the prongs of the plug, and the circular
saw whirred to life.

“Sweet!” Leo grinned. “Your horse comes with AC outlets!”
Their  good  mood  didn’t  last  long.  On  the  other  side  of  the  pool,  the
giant’s spire crumbled with a sound like a tree snapping in half. Its outer

sheath  of  tendrils  exploded  from  the  top  down,  raining  stone  and  wood
shards as the giant shook himself free and climbed out of the earth.
Jason hadn’t thought anything could be scarier than Enceladus.
He was wrong.
Porphyrion  was  even  taller,  and  even  more  ripped.  He  didn’t  radiate
heat,  or  show  any  signs  of  breathing  fire,  but  there  was  something  more
terrible  about  him—a  kind  of  strength,  even  magnetism,  as  if  the  giant
were so huge and dense he had his own gravitational field.

Like Enceladus, the giant king was humanoid from the waist up, clad
in bronze armor, and from the waist down he had scaly dragon’s legs; but
his skin was the color of lima beans. His hair was green as summer leaves,
braided  in  long  locks  and  decorated  with  weapons—daggers,  axes,  and
full-size  swords,  some  of  them  bent  and  bloody—maybe  trophies  taken
from  demigods  eons  before.  When  the  giant  opened  his  eyes,  they  were
blank white, like polished marble. He took a deep breath.

“Alive!” he bellowed. “Praise to Gaea!”
Jason  made  a  heroic  little  whimpering  sound  he  hoped  his  friends
couldn’t  hear.  He  was  very  sure  no  demigod  could  solo  this  guy.
Porphyrion could lift mountains. He could crush Jason with one finger.

“Leo,” Jason said.
“Huh?” Leo’s mouth was wide open. Even Piper seemed dazed.
“You guys keep working,” Jason said. “Get Hera free!”
“What are you going to do?” Piper asked. “You can’t seriously—”
“Entertain a giant?” Jason said. “I’ve got no choice.”

“Excellent!” the giant roared as Jason approached. “An appetizer! Who are
you—Hermes? Ares?”

Jason thought about  going  with  that idea,  but  something told him not

to.

“I’m Jason Grace,” he said. “Son of Jupiter.”
Those  white  eyes  bored  into  him.  Behind  him,  Leo’s  circular  saw
whirred, and Piper talked to the cage in soothing tones, trying to keep the
fear out of her voice.

Porphyrion  threw  back  his  head  and  laughed.  “Outstanding!”  He
looked  up  at  the  cloudy  night  sky.  “So,  Zeus,  you  sacrifice  a  son  to  me?

The gesture is appreciated, but it will not save you.”

The  sky  didn’t  even  rumble.  No  help  from  above.  Jason  was  on  his

own.

He  dropped  his  makeshift  club.  His  hands  were  covered  in  splinters,
but that didn’t matter now. He had to buy Leo and Piper some time, and he
couldn’t do that without a proper weapon.

It was time to act a whole lot more confident than he felt.
“If  you  knew  who  I  was,”  Jason  yelled  up  at  the  giant,  “you’d  be
worried about me, not my father. I hope you enjoyed your two and a half
minutes  of  rebirth,  giant,  because  I’m  going  to  send  you  right  back  to
Tartarus.”

The  giant’s  eyes  narrowed.  He  planted  one  foot  outside  the  pool  and
crouched  to  get  a  better  look  at  his  opponent.  “So  …  we’ll  start  by
boasting,  will  we?  Just  like  old  times!  Very  well,  demigod.  I  am
Porphryion,  king  of  the  giants,  son  of  Gaea.  In  olden  times,  I  rose  from
Tatarus, the abyss of my father, to challenge the gods. To start the war, I
stole Zeus’s queen.” He grinned at the goddess’s cage. “Hello, Hera.”

“My  husband  destroyed  you  once,  monster!”  Hera  said.  “He’ll  do  it

again!”

“But he didn’t, my dear! Zeus wasn’t powerful enough to kill me. He
had to rely on a puny demigod to help, and even then, we almost won. This
time,  we  will  complete  what  we  started.  Gaea  is  waking.  She  has
provisioned us with many fine servants. Our armies will shake the earth—
and we will destroy you at the roots.”

“You  wouldn’t  dare,”  Hera  said,  but  she  was  weakening.  Jason  could
hear  it  in  her  voice.  Piper  kept  whispering  to  the  cage,  and  Leo  kept
sawing, but the earth was still rising inside Hera’s prison, covering her up
to her waist.

“Oh, yes,” the giant said. “The Titans sought to attack your new home
in  New  York. Bold, but  ineffective.  Gaea  is  wiser  and more  patient. And
we, her greatest children, are much, much stronger than Kronos. We know
how  to  kill  you  Olympians  once  and  for  all.  You  must  be  dug  up
completely like rotten trees—your eldest roots torn out and burned.”

The  giant  frowned  at  Piper  and  Leo,  as  if  he’d  just  noticed  them
working  at  the  cage.  Jason  stepped  forward  and  yelled  to  get  back

Porphyrion’s attention.

“You said a demigod killed you,” he shouted. “How, if we’re so puny?”
“Ha! You think I would explain it to you? I was created to be Zeus’s
replacement, born to destroy the lord of the sky. I shall take his throne. I
shall take his wife—or, if she will not have me, I will let the earth consume
her life force. What you see before you, child, is only my weakened form. I
will  grow  stronger  by  the  hour,  until  I  am  invincible.  But  I  am  already
quite capable of smashing you to a grease spot!”

He  rose  to  his  full  height  and  held  out  his  hand.  A  twenty-foot  spear
shot  from  the  earth.  He  grasped  it,  then  stomped  the  ground  with  his
dragon’s feet. The ruins shook. All around the courtyard, monsters started
to regather—storm spirits, wolves, and Earthborn, all answering the giant
king’s call.

“Great,” Leo muttered. “We needed more enemies.”
“Hurry,” Hera said.
“I know!” Leo snapped.
“Go to sleep, cage,” Piper said. “Nice, sleepy cage. Yes, I’m talking to

a bunch of earthen tendrils. This isn’t weird at all.”

Porphyrion  raked  his  spear  across  the  top  of  the  ruins,  destroying  a
chimney and spraying wood and stone across the courtyard. “So, child of
Zeus!  I  have  finished  my  boasting.  Now  it’s  your  turn.  What  were  you
saying about destroying me?”

Jason  looked  at  the  ring  of  monsters,  waiting  impatiently  for  their
master’s order to tear them to shreds. Leo’s circular saw kept whirring, and
Piper  kept  talking,  but  it  seemed  hopeless.  Hera’s  cage  was  almost
completely filled with earth.

“I’m the son of Jupiter!” he shouted, and just for effect, he summoned
the winds, rising a few feet off the ground. “I’m a child of Rome, consul to
demigods,  praetor  of  the  First  Legion.”  Jason  didn’t  know  quite  what  he
was  saying,  but  he  rattled  off  the  words  like  he’d  said  them  many  times
before.  He  held  out  his  arms, showing the  tattoo  of the  eagle  and SPQR,
and to his surprise the giant seemed to recognize it.

For a moment, Porphyrion actually looked uneasy.
“I slew the Trojan sea monster,” Jason continued. “I toppled the black
throne of Kronos, and destroyed the Titan Krios with my own hands. And

now  I’m  going  to  destroy  you,  Porphyrion,  and  feed  you  to  your  own
wolves.”

“Wow, dude,” Leo muttered. “You been eating red meat?”
Jason launched himself at the giant, determined to tear him apart.

The  idea  of  fighting  a  forty-foot-tall  immortal  bare  handed  was  so
ridiculous, even the giant seemed surprised. Half flying, half leaping, Jason
landed  on the  giant’s scaly  reptilian  knee and climbed up the  giant’s arm
before Porphyrion even realized what had happened.

“You dare?” the giant bellowed.
Jason  reached  his  shoulders  and  ripped  a  sword  out  of  the  giant’s
weapon-filled braids. He yelled, “For Rome!” and drove the sword into the
nearest convenient target—the giant’s massive ear.

Lightning  streaked  out  of  the  sky  and  blasted  the  sword,  throwing
Jason free. He rolled when he hit the ground. When he looked up, the giant
was staggering. His hair was on fire, and the side of his face was blackened
from lightning. The sword had splintered in his ear. Golden ichor ran down
his jaw. The other weapons were sparking and smoldering in his braids.

Porphyrion almost fell. The circle of monsters let out a collective growl

and moved forward—wolves and ogres fixing their eyes on Jason.

“No!”  Porphyrion  yelled.  He  regained  his  balance  and  glared  at  the

demigod. “I will kill him myself.”

The giant raised his spear and it began to glow. “You want to play with
lightning, boy? You forget. I am the bane of Zeus. I was created to destroy
your father, which means I know exactly what will kill you.”

Something in Porphyrion’s voice told Jason he wasn’t bluffing.
Jason and his friends had had a good run. The three of them had done
amazing things. Yeah, even heroic things. But as the giant raised his spear,
Jason knew there was no way he could deflect this strike.

This was the end.
“Got it!” Leo yelled.
“Sleep!” Piper said, so forcefully, the nearest wolves fell to the ground

and began snoring.

The stone and wood cage crumbled. Leo had sawed through the base of
the  thickest  tendril  and  apparently  cut  off  the  cage’s  connection  to  Gaea.

The  tendrils  turned  to  dust.  The  mud  around  Hera  disintegrated.  The
goddess grew in size, glowing with power.

“Yes!” the goddess said. She threw off her black robes to reveal a white
gown, her arms bedecked with golden jewelry. Her face was both terrible
and beautiful, and a golden crown glowed in her long black hair. “Now I
shall have my revenge!”

The giant Porphyrion backed away. He said nothing, but he gave Jason
one  last  look  of  hatred.  His  message  was  clear:  Another  time.  Then  he
slammed  his  spear  against  the  earth,  and  the  giant  disappeared  into  the
ground like he’d dropped down a chute.

Around  the  courtyard,  monsters  began  to  panic  and  retreat,  but  there

was no escape for them.

Hera glowed brighter. She shouted, “Cover your eyes, my heroes!”
But Jason was too much in shock. He understood too late.
He  watched  as  Hera  turned  into  a  supernova,  exploding  in  a  ring  of
force  that vaporized every  monster  instantly. Jason fell,  light  searing into
his mind, and his last thought was that his body was burning.

“JASON!”

Piper kept calling his name as she held him, though she’d almost lost
hope.  He’d  been  unconscious  for  two  minutes  now.  His  body  was
steaming, his eyes rolled back in his head. She couldn’t tell if he was even
breathing.

“It’s no use, child.” Hera stood over them in her simple black robes and

shawl.

Piper hadn’t seen the goddess go nuclear. Thankfully she’d closed her
eyes, but she could see the aftereffects. Every vestige of winter was gone
from  the  valley.  No  signs  of  battle,  either.  The  monsters  had  been
vaporized.  The  ruins  had  been  restored  to  what  they  were  before—still
ruins, but with no evidence that they’d been overrun by a horde of wolves,
storm spirits, and six-armed ogres.

Even  the  Hunters  had  been  revived.  Most  waited  at  a  respectful
distance  in  the  meadow,  but  Thalia  knelt  by  Piper’s  side,  her  hand  on
Jason’s forehead.

Thalia glared up at the goddess. “This is your fault. Do something!”
“Do not address me that way, girl. I am the queen—”
“Fix him!”
Hera’s  eyes  flickered  with  power.  “I  did  warn  him.  I  would  never
intentionally hurt the boy. He was to be my champion. I told them to close
their eyes before I revealed my true form.”

“Um  …”  Leo  frowned.  “True  form  is  bad,  right?  So  why  did  you  do

it?”

“I unleashed my power to help you, fool!” Hera cried. “I became pure
energy  so  I  could  disintegrate  the  monsters,  restore  this  place,  and  even
save these miserable Hunters from the ice.”

“But  mortals  can’t  look  upon  you  in  that  form!”  Thalia  shouted.

“You’ve killed him!”

Leo  shook  his  head  in  dismay.  “That’s  what  our  prophecy  meant.
Death unleash, through Hera’s rage. Come on, lady. You’re a goddess. Do
some voodoo magic on him! Bring him back.”

Piper  half  heard  their  conversation,  but  mostly  she  was  focused  on

Jason’s face. “He’s breathing!” she announced.

“Impossible,” Hera said. “I wish it were true, child, but no mortal has

ever—”

“Jason,” Piper called, putting every bit of her willpower into his name.
She could not lose him. “Listen to me. You can do this. Come back. You’re
going to be fine.”

Nothing happened. Had she imagined his breath stirring?
“Healing is not a power of Aphrodite,” Hera said regretfully. “Even I

cannot fix this, girl. His mortal spirit—”

“Jason,”  Piper  said  again,  and  she  imagined  her  voice  resonating

through the earth, all the way down to the Underworld. “Wake up.”

He  gasped,  and  his  eyes  flew  open.  For  a  moment  they  were  full  of
light—glowing pure gold. Then the light faded and his eyes were normal
again. “What—what happened?”
“Impossible!” Hera said.
Piper wrapped him in a hug until he groaned, “Crushing me.”
“Sorry,” she said, so relieved, she laughed while wiping a tear from her

eye.

Thalia gripped her brother’s hand. “How do you feel?”
“Hot,”  he  muttered.  “Mouth  is  dry.  And  I  saw  something…  really

terrible.”

“That was Hera,” Thalia grumbled. “Her Majesty, the Loose Cannon.”
“That’s  it,  Thalia  Grace,”  said  the  goddess.  “I  will  turn  you  into  an

aardvark, so help me—”

“Stop it, you two,” Piper said. Amazingly, they both shut up.
Piper helped Jason to his feet and gave him the last nectar from their

supplies.

“Now  …”  Piper  faced  Thalia  and  Hera.  “Hera—Your  Majesty—we
couldn’t  have  rescued  you  without  the  Hunters.  And  Thalia,  you  never
would’ve  seen  Jason  again—I  wouldn’t  have  met  him—if  it  weren’t  for
Hera. You two make nice, because we’ve got bigger problems.”

They both glared at her, and for three long seconds, Piper wasn’t sure

which one of them was going to kill her first.

Finally  Thalia  grunted.  “You’ve  got  spirit,  Piper.”  She  pulled  a  silver
card from her parka and tucked it into the pocket of Piper’s snowboarding
jacket. “You ever want to be a Hunter, call me. We could use you.”

Hera crossed her arms. “Fortunately for this Hunter, you have a point,
daughter of Aphrodite.” She assessed Piper, as if seeing her clearly for the
time. “You wondered, Piper, why I chose you for this quest, why I didn’t
reveal  your  secret  in  the  beginning,  even  when  I  knew  Enceladus  was
using you. I must admit, until this moment I was not sure. Something told
me  you  would  be  vital  to  the  quest.  Now  I  see  I  was  right.  You’re  even
stronger  than  I  realized.  And  you  are  correct  about  the  dangers  to  come.
We must work together.”

Piper’s  face  felt  warm.  She  wasn’t  sure  how  to  respond  to  Hera’s

compliment, but Leo stepped in.

“Yeah,” he said, “I don’t suppose that Porphyrion guy just melted and

died, huh?”

“No,”  Hera  agreed.  “By  saving  me,  and  saving  this  place,  you
prevented  Gaea  from  waking.  You  have  bought  us  some  time.  But
Porphyrion has risen. He simply knew better than to stay here, especially
since he has not yet regained his full power. Giants can only be killed by a
combination of god and demigod, working together. Once you freed me—”

“He ran away,” Jason said. “But to where?”
Hera  didn’t  answer,  but  a  sense  of  dread  washed  over  Piper.  She
remembered  what  Porphyrion  had  said  about  killing  the  Olympians  by
pulling up their roots. Greece. She looked at Thalia’s grim expression, and
guessed the Hunter had come to the same conclusion.

“I  need  to  find  Annabeth,”  Thalia  said.  “She  has  to  know  what’s

happened here.”

“Thalia  …”  Jason  gripped  her  hand.  “We  never  got  to  talk  about  this

place, or—”

“I know.” Her expression softened. “I lost you here once. I don’t want
to leave you again. But we’ll meet soon. I’ll rendezvous with you back at
Camp  Half-Blood.”  She  glanced  at  Hera.  “You’ll  see  them  there  safely?
It’s the least you can do.”

“It’s not your place to tell me—”
“Queen Hera,” Piper interceded.
The goddess sighed. “Fine. Yes. Just off with you, Hunter!”
Thalia  gave  Jason  a  hug  and  said  her  good-byes.  When  the  Hunters
were  gone,  the  courtyard  seemed  strangely  quiet.  The  dry  reflecting  pool
showed no sign of the earthen tendrils that had brought back the giant king
or imprisoned Hera. The night sky was clear and starry. The wind rustled
in the redwoods. Piper thought about that night in Oklahoma when she and
her dad had slept in Grandpa Tom’s front yard. She thought about the night
on  the  Wilderness  School  dorm  roof,  when  Jason  had  kissed  her—in  her
Mist-altered memories, anyway.

“Jason, what happened to you here?” she asked. “I mean—I know your
mom  abandoned  you  here.  But  you  said  it  was  sacred  ground  for
demigods. Why? What happened after you were on your own?”

Jason shook his head uneasily. “It’s still murky. The wolves …”
“You  were  given  a  destiny,”  Hera  said.  “You  were  given  into  my

service.”

Jason scowled. “Because you forced my mom to do that. You couldn’t
stand  knowing  Zeus  had  two  children  with  my  mom.  Knowing  that  he’d
fallen for her twice. I was the price you demanded for leaving the rest of
my family alone. ”

“It  was  the  right  choice  for  you  as  well,  Jason,”  Hera  insisted.  “The
second  time  your  mother  managed  to  snare  Zeus’s  affections,  it  was
because  she  imagined  him  in  a  different  aspect—the  aspect  of  Jupiter.
Never  before  had  this  happened—two  children,  Greek  and  Roman,  born
into the same family. You had to be separated from Thalia. This is where
all demigods of your kind start their journey.”

“Of his kind?” Piper asked.
“She means Roman,” Jason said. “Demigods are left here. We meet the
she-wolf goddess, Lupa, the same immortal wolf that raised Romulus and
Remus.”

Hera nodded. “And if you are strong enough, you live.”
“But  …”  Leo  looked  mystified.  “What  happened  after  that?  I  mean,

Jason never made it to camp.”

“Not to Camp Half-Blood, no,” Hera agreed.
Piper  felt  as  if  the  sky  were  spiraling  above  her,  making  her  dizzy.
“You  went  somewhere  else.  That’s  where  you’ve  been  all  these  years.
Somewhere else for demigods—but where?”

Jason turned to the goddess. “The memories are coming back, but not

the location. You’re not going to tell me, are you?”

“No,”  Hera  said.  “That  is  part  of  your  destiny,  Jason.  You  must  find
your own way back. But when you do … you will unite two great powers.
You  will  give  us  hope  against  the  giants,  and  more  importantly—against
Gaea herself.”

“You  want  us  to  help  you,”  Jason  said,  “but  you’re  holding  back

information.”

“Giving  you  answers  would  make  those  answers  invalid,”  Hera  said.
“That is the way of the Fates. You must forge your own path for it to mean
anything. Already, you three have surprised me. I would not have thought
it possible …”

The goddess shook her head. “Suffice to say, you have performed well,
demigods.  But  this  is  only  the  beginning.  Now  you  must  return  to  Camp
Half-Blood, where you will begin planning for the next phase.”

“Which you won’t tell us about,” Jason grumped. “And I suppose you

destroyed my nice storm spirit horse, so we’ll have to walk home?”

Hera waved aside the question. “Storm spirits are creatures of chaos. I
did not destroy that one, though I have no idea where he went, or whether
you’ll see him again. But there is an easier way home for you. As you have
done  me  a  great  service,  so  I  can  help  you—at  least  this  once.  Farewell,
demigods, for now.”

The world turned upside down, and Piper almost blacked out.

When  she  could  see  straight  again,  she  was  back  at  camp,  in  the  dining
pavilion,  in  the  middle  of  dinner.  They  were  standing  on  the  Aphrodite
cabin’s table, and Piper had one foot in Drew’s pizza. Sixty campers rose
at once, gawking at them in astonishment.

Whatever  Hera  had  done  to  shoot  them  across  the  country,  it  wasn’t
good for Piper’s stomach. She could barely control her nausea. Leo wasn’t
so  lucky.  He  jumped  off  the  table,  ran  to  the  nearest  bronze  brazier,  and
threw up in it—which was probably not a great burnt offering for the gods.
“Jason?”  Chiron  trotted  forward.  No  doubt  the  old  centaur  had  seen
thousands  of  years’  worth  of  weird  stuff,  but  even  he  looked  totally
flabbergasted. “What—How—?”

The  Aphrodite  campers  stared  up  at  Piper  with  their  mouths  open.

Piper figured she must look awful.

“Hi,” she said, as casually as she could. “We’re back.”

PIPER DIDN’T REMEMBER MUCH ABOUT the rest of the night. They told their
story and answered a million questions from the other campers, but finally
Chiron saw how tired they were and ordered them to bed.

It felt so good to sleep on a real mattress, and Piper was so exhausted,
she crashed immediately, which spared her any worry about what it would
be like returning to the Aphrodite cabin.

The next morning she woke in her bunk, feeling reinvigorated. The sun
came through the windows along with a pleasant breeze. It might’ve been
spring  instead  of  winter.  Birds  sang.  Monsters  howled  in  the  woods.
Breakfast  smells  wafted  from  the  dining  pavilion—bacon,  pancakes,  and
all sorts of wonderful things.

Drew and her gang were frowning down at her, their arms crossed.
“Morning.” Piper sat up and smiled. “Beautiful day.”
“You’re going to make us late for breakfast,” Drew said, “which means

you get to clean the cabin for inspection.”

A  week  ago,  Piper  would’ve  either  punched  Drew  in  the  face,  or
hidden  back  under  her  covers.  Now  she  thought  about  the  Cyclopes  in
Detroit, Medea in Chicago, Midas turning her to gold in Omaha. Looking
at Drew, who used to bother her, Piper laughed.

Drew’s  smug  expression  crumbled.  She  backed  up,  then  remembered

she was supposed to be angry. “What are you—”

“Challenging you,” Piper said. “How about noon in the arena? You can

choose the weapons.”

She got out of bed, stretched leisurely, and beamed at her cabinmates.
She spotted Mitchell and Lacy, who’d helped her pack for the quest. They
were  smiling  tentatively,  their  eyes  flitting  from  Piper  to  Drew  like  this
might be a very interesting tennis game.

“I  missed  you  guys!”  Piper  announced.  “We’re  going  to  have  a  great

time when I’m senior counselor.”

Drew turned bug juice red. Even her closest lieutenants looked a little

nervous. This wasn’t in their script.

“You—”  Drew  spluttered.  “You  ugly  little  witch!  I’ve  been  here  the

longest. You can’t just—”

“Challenge  you?”  Piper  said.  “Sure,  I  can.  Camp  rules:  I’ve  been
claimed  by  Aphrodite.  I’ve  completed  a  quest,  which  is  one  more  than
you’ve  completed.  If  I  feel  I  can  do  a  better  job,  I  can  challenge  you.
Unless you just want to step down. Did I get all that right, Mitchell?”

“Just right, Piper.” Mitchell was grinning. Lacy was bouncing up and

down like she was trying to achieve liftoff.

A  few  of  the  other  kids  started  to  grin,  as  if  they  were  enjoying  the

different colors Drew’s face was turning.

“Step down?” Drew shrieked. “You’re crazy!”
Piper  shrugged.  Then  fast  as  a  viper  she  pulled  Katoptris  from  under
her pillow, unsheathed the dagger, and thrust the point under Drew’s chin.
Everybody else backed up fast. One guy crashed into a makeup table and
sent up a plume of pink powder.

“A duel, then,” Piper said cheerfully. “If you don’t want to wait until
noon,  now  is  fine.  You’ve  turned  this  cabin  into  a  dictatorship,  Drew.
Silena  Beauregard  knew  better  than  that.  Aphrodite  is  about  love  and
beauty. Being loving.  Spreadingbeauty.  Good  friends.  Good  times.  Good
deeds.  Not  just  looking  good.  Silena  made  mistakes,  but  in  the  end  she
stood  by  her  friends.  That’s  why  she  was  a  hero.  I’m  going  to  set  things
right, and I’ve got a feeling Mom will be on my side. Want to find out?”
Drew went cross-eyed looking down the blade of Piper’s dagger.
A  second  passed.  Then  two.  Piper  didn’t  care.  She  was  absolutely

happy and confident. It must’ve shown in her smile.

“I … step down,” Drew grumbled. “But if you think I’m ever going to

forget this, McLean—”

“Oh,  I  hope  you  won’t,”  Piper  said.  “Now,  run  along  to  the  dining
pavilion, and explain to Chiron why we’re late. There’s been a change of
leadership.”

Drew  backed  to  the  door.  Even  her  closest  lieutenants  didn’t  follow

her. She was about to leave when Piper said, “Oh, and Drew, honey?”

The former counselor looked back reluctantly.
“In  case  you  think  I’m  not  a  true  daughter  of  Aphrodite,”  Piper  said,
“don’t even look at Jason Grace. He may not know it yet, but he’s mine. If
you even try to make a move, I will load you into a catapult and shoot you
across Long Island Sound.”

Drew turned around so fast, she ran into the doorframe. Then she was

gone.

The cabin was silent. The other campers stared at Piper. This was the
part  she  was  unsure  of.  She  didn’t  want  to  rule  by  fear.  She  wasn’t  like
Drew, but she didn’t know if they’d accept her.

Then,  spontaneously,  the  Aphrodite  campers  cheered  so  loudly,  they
must’ve  been  heard  all  across  camp.  They  herded  Piper  out  of  the  cabin,
raised  her  on  their  shoulders,  and  carried  her  all  the  way  to  the  dining
pavilion—still  in  her  pajamas,  her  hair  still  a  mess,  but  she  didn’t  care.
She’d never felt better.

By afternoon, Piper had changed into comfortable camp clothes and led the
Aphrodite  cabin  through  their  morning  activities.  She  was  ready  for  free
time.

Some  of  the  buzz  of  her  victory  had  faded  because  she  had  an

appointment at the Big House.

Chiron met her on the front porch in human form, compacted into his

wheelchair. “Come inside, my dear. The video conference is ready.”

The only computer at camp was in Chiron’s office, and the whole room

was shielded in bronze plating.

“Demigods  and  technology  don’t  mix,”  Chiron  explained.  “Phone
calls,  texting,  even  browsing  the  Internet—all  these  things  can  attract
monsters. Why, just this fall at a school in Cincinnati, we had to rescue a
young  hero  who  Googled  the  gorgons  and  got  a  little  more  than  he
bargained for, but never mind that. Here at camp, you’re protected. Still …
we try to be cautious. You’ll only be able to talk for a few minutes.”

“Got it,” Piper said. “Thank you, Chiron.”

He smiled and wheeled himself out of the office. Piper hesitated before
clicking the call button. Chiron’s office had a cluttered, cozy feel. One wall
was  covered  with  T-shirts  from  different  conventions—party  ponies  ’09
vegas,  party  ponies  ’10  honolulu,  et  cetera.  Piper  didn’t  know  who  the
Party Ponies were, but judging from the stains, scorch marks, and weapon
holes in the T-shirts, they must’ve had some pretty wild meetings. On the
shelf over Chiron’s desk sat an old-fashioned boom box with cassette tapes
labeled “Dean Martin” and “Frank Sinatra” and “Greatest Hits of the 40s.”
Chiron was so old, Piper wondered if that meant 1940s, 1840s, or maybe
just A.D. 40.

But  most  of  the  office’s  wall  space  was  plastered  with  photos  of
demigods,  like  a  hall  of  fame.  One  of  the  newer  shots  showed  a  teenage
guy  with  dark  hair  and  green  eyes.  Since  he  stood  arm  in  arm  with
Annabeth, Piper assumed the guy must be Percy Jackson. In some of the
older  photos,  she  recognized  famous  people:  businessmen,  athletes,  even
some actors that her dad knew.

“Unbelievable,” she muttered.
Piper  wondered  if  her  photo  would  go  on  that  wall  someday.  For  the
first  time,  she  felt  like  she  was  part  of  something  bigger  than  herself.
Demigods had been around for centuries. Whatever she did, she did for all
of them.

She took a deep breath and made the call. The video screen popped up.
Gleeson Hedge grinned at her from her dad’s office. “Seen the news?”
“Kind  of  hard  to  miss,”  Piper  said.  “I  hope  you  know  what  you’re

doing.”

Chiron  had  shown  her  a  newspaper  at  lunch.  Her  dad’s  mysterious
return from nowhere had made the front page. His personal assistant Jane
had been fired for covering up his disappearance and failing to notify the
police.  A  new  staff  had  been  hired  and  personally  vetted  by  Tristan
McLean’s  “life  coach,”  Gleeson  Hedge.  According  to  the  paper,  Mr.
McLean claimed to have no memory of the last week, and the media was
totally eating up the story. Some thought it was a clever marketing ploy for
a movie—maybe McLean was going to play an amnesiac? Some thought
he’d been kidnapped by terrorists, or rabid fans, or had heroically escaped
from  ransom  seekers  using  his  incredible  King  of  Sparta  fighting  skills.
Whatever the truth, Tristan McLean was more famous than ever.

“It’s going great,” Hedge promised. “But don’t worry. We’re going to
keep him out of the public eye for the next month or so until things cool
down.  Your  dad’s  got  more  important  things  to  do—like  resting,  and
talking to his daughter.”

“Don’t  get  too  comfortable  out  there  in  Hollywood,  Gleeson,”  Piper

said.

Hedge  snorted.  “You  kidding?  These  people  make  Aeolus  look  sane.
I’ll be back as soon as I can, but your dad’s gotta get back on his feet first.
He’s a good guy. Oh, and by the way, I took care of that other little matter.
The  Park  Service  in  the  Bay  Area  just  got  an  anonymous  gift  of  a  new
helicopter. And that ranger pilot who helped us? She’s got a very lucrative
offer to fly for Mr. McLean.”

“Thanks, Gleeson,” Piper said. “For everything.”
“Yeah, well. I don’t try to be awesome. It just comes natural. Speaking

of Aeolus’s place, meet your dad’s new assistant.”

Hedge was nudged out of the way, and a pretty young lady grinned into

the camera.

“Mellie?” Piper stared, but it was definitely her: the aura who’d helped

them escape from Aeolus’s fortress. “You’re working for my dad now?”

“Isn’t it great?”
“Does he know you’re a—you know—wind spirit?”
“Oh, no. But I love this job. It’s—um—a breeze.”
Piper  couldn’t help  but  laugh.  “I’m glad.  That’s awesome.  But where

—”

“Just a sec.” Mellie kissed Gleeson on the cheek. “Come on, you old

goat. Stop hogging the screen.”

“What?”  Hedge  demanded.  But  Mellie  steered  him  away  and  called,

“Mr. McLean? She’s on!”

A second later, Piper’s dad appeared.
He broke into a huge grin. “Pipes!”
He  looked  great—back  to  normal,  with  his  sparkling  brown  eyes,  his
half-day beard, his confident smile, and his newly trimmed hair like he was
ready  to  shoot  a  scene.  Piper  was  relieved,  but  she  also  felt  a  little  sad.
Back to normal wasn’t necessarily what she’d wanted.

In  her  mind,  she  started  the  clock.  On  a  normal  call  like  this,  on  a
workday,  she  hardly  ever  got  her  dad’s  attention  for  longer  than  thirty
seconds.

“Hey,” she said weakly. “You feeling okay?”
“Honey, I’m so sorry to worry you with this disappearance business. I
don’t  know  …”  His  smile  wavered,  and  she  could  tell  he  was  trying  to
remember—grasping  for  a  memory  that  should  have  been  there,  but
wasn’t. “I’m not sure what happened, honestly. But I’m fine. Coach Hedge
has been a godsend.”

“A godsend,” she repeated. Funny choice of words.
“He  told  me  about  your  new  school,”  Dad  said.  “I’m  sorry  the
Wilderness School didn’t work out, but you were right. Jane was wrong. I
was a fool to listen to her.”

Ten seconds left, maybe. But at least her dad sounded sincere, like he

really did feel remorseful.

“You don’t remember anything?” she said, a bit wistfully.
“Of course I do,” he said.
A chill went down her neck. “You do?”
“I remember that I love you,” he said. “And I’m proud of you. Are you

happy at your new school?”

Piper  blinked.  She  wasn’t  going  to  cry  now.  After  all  she’d  been
through, that would be ridiculous. “Yeah, Dad. It’s more like a camp, not a
school, but … Yeah, I think I’ll be happy here.”

“Call  me  as  often  as  you  can,”  he  said.  “And  come  home  for

Christmas. And Pipes …”

“Yes?”
He  touched  the  screen  as  if  trying  to  reach  through  with  his  hand.
“You’re  a  wonderful  young  lady.  I  don’t  tell  you  that  often  enough.  You
remind me so much of your mother. She’d be proud. And Grandpa Tom”—
he  chuckled—“he  always  said  you’d  be  the  most  powerful  voice  in  our
family. You’re going to outshine me some day, you know. They’re going to
remember  me  as  Piper  McLean’s  father,  and  that’s  the  best  legacy  I  can
imagine.”

Piper  tried  to  answer,  but  she  was  afraid  she’d  break  down.  She  just

touched his fingers on the screen and nodded.

Mellie said something in the background, and her dad sighed. “Studio

calling. I’m sorry, honey.” And he did sound genuinely annoyed to go.

“It’s okay, Dad,” she managed. “Love you.”
He winked. Then the video call went black.
Forty-five seconds? Maybe a full minute.
Piper smiled. A small improvement, but it was progress.

At  the  commons  area,  she  found  Jason  relaxing  on  a  bench,  a  basketball
between his feet. He was sweaty from working out, but he looked great in
his orange tank top and shorts. His various scars and bruises from the quest
were healing, thanks to some medical attention from the Apollo cabin. His
arms  and  legs  were  well  muscled  and  tan—distracting  as  always.  His
close-cropped blond hair caught the afternoon light so it looked like it was
turning to gold, Midas style.

“Hey,” he said. “How did it go?”
It took her a second to focus on his question. “Hmm? Oh, yeah. Fine.”
She  sat  next  to  him  and  they  watched  the  campers  going  back  and
forth. A couple of Demeter girls were playing tricks on two of the Apollo
guys—making grass grow around their ankles as they shot baskets. Over at
the  camp  store,  the  Hermes  kids  were  putting  up  a  sign  that  read:  flying
shoes, slightly used, 50% off today! Ares kids were lining their cabin with
fresh barbed wire. The Hypnos cabin was snoring away. A normal day at
camp.

Meanwhile,  the  Aphrodite  kids  were  watching  Piper  and  Jason,  and
trying  to  pretend  they  weren’t.  Piper  was  pretty  sure  she  saw  money
change hands, like they were placing bets on a kiss.

“Get any sleep?” she asked him.
He  looked  at  her  as  if  she’d  been  reading  his  thoughts.  “Not  much.

Dreams.”

“About your past?”
He nodded.
She didn’t push him. If he wanted to talk, that was fine, but she knew
him  better  than  to  press  the  subject.  She  didn’t  even  worry  that  her
knowledge  of  him  was  mostly  based  on  three  months  of  false  memories.

You can sense possibilities, her mother had said. And Piper was determined
to make those possibilities a reality.

Jason  spun  his  basketball.  “It’s  not  good  news,”  he  warned.  “My

memories aren’t good for—for any of us.”

Piper was pretty sure he’d been about to say for us—as in  the  two of
them, and she wondered if he’d remembered a girl from his past. But she
didn’t let it bother her. Not on a sunny winter day like this, with Jason next
to her.

“We’ll figure it out,” she promised.
He  looked  at  her hesitantly, like he wanted very much  to  believe  her.
“Annabeth  and  Rachel  are  coming  in  for  the  meeting  tonight.  I  should
probably wait until then to explain …”

“Okay.” She plucked a blade of grass by her foot. She knew there were
dangerous  things  in  store  for  both  of  them.  She  would  have  to  compete
with  Jason’s  past,  and  they  might  not  even  survive  their  war  against  the
giants.  But  right  now,  they  were  both  alive,  and  she  was  determined  to
enjoy this moment.

Jason  studied  her  warily.  His  forearm  tattoo  was  faint  blue  in  the
sunlight.  “You’re  in  a  good  mood.  How  can  you  be  so  sure  things  will
work out?”

“Because  you’re  going  to  lead  us,”  she  said  simply.  “I’d  follow  you

anywhere.”

Jason blinked. Then slowly, he smiled. “Dangerous thing to say.”
“I’m a dangerous girl.”
“That, I believe.”
He got up and brushed off his shorts. He offered her a hand. “Leo says

he’s got something to show us out in the woods. You coming?”

“Wouldn’t miss it.” She took his hand and stood up.
For  a  moment,  they  kept  holding  hands.  Jason  tilted  his  head.  “We

should get going.”

“Yep,” she said. “Just a sec.”
She  let  go  of  his  hand,  and  took  a  card  from  her  pocket—the  silver
calling  card  that  Thalia  had  given  her  for  the  Hunters  of  Artemis.  She
dropped it into a nearby eternal fire and watched it burn. There would be

no breaking hearts in Aphrodite cabin from now on. That was one rite of
passage they didn’t need.

Across the green, her cabinmates looking disappointed that they hadn’t

witnessed a kiss. They started cashing in their bets.

But that was all right. Piper was patient, and she could see lots of good

possibilities.

“Let’s go,” she told Jason. “We’ve got adventures to plan.”

LEO  HADN’T  FELT  THIS  JUMPY  SINCE  HE  offered  tofu  burgers  to  the
werewolves. When he got to the limestone cliff in the forest, he turned to
the group and smiled nervously. “Here we go.”

He willed his hand to catch fire, and set it against the door.
His cabinmates gasped.
“Leo!” Nyssa cried. “You’re a fire user!”
“Yeah, thanks,” he said. “I know.”
Jake Mason, who was  out  of his  body  cast  but  still  on crutches, said,

“Holy Hephaestus. That means—it’s so rare that—”

The  massive  stone  door  swung  open,  and  everyone’s  mouth  dropped.
Leo’s  flaming  hand  seemed  insignificant  now.  Even  Piper  and  Jason
looked stunned, and they’d seen enough amazing things lately.

Only  Chiron  didn’t  look  surprised.  The  centaur  knit  his  bushy
eyebrows and stroked his beard, as if the group was about to walk through
a minefield.

That  made  Leo  even  more  nervous,  but  he  couldn’t  change  his  mind
now. His instincts told him he was meant to share this place—at least with
the Hephaestus cabin—and he couldn’t hide it from Chiron or his two best
friends.

“Welcome  to  Bunker  Nine,”  he  said,  as  confidently  as  he  could.

“C’mon in.”

The group was silent as they toured the facility. Everything was just as Leo
had  left  it—giant  machines,  worktables,  old  maps  and  schematics.  Only
one thing had changed. Festus’s head was sitting on the central table, still
battered and scorched from his final crash in Omaha.

Leo went over to it, a bitter taste in his mouth, and stroked the dragon’s

forehead. “I’m sorry, Festus. But I won’t forget you.”

Jason  put  a  hand  on  Leo’s  shoulder.  “Hephaestus  brought  it  here  for

you?”

Leo nodded.
“But you can’t repair him,” Jason guessed.
“No way,” Leo said. “But the head is going to be reused. Festus will be

going with us.”

Piper came over and frowned. “What do you mean?”
Before Leo could answer, Nyssa cried out, “Guys, look at this!”
She  was  standing  at  one  of  the  worktables,  flipping  through  a

sketchbook—diagrams for hundreds of different machines and weapons.

“I’ve  never  seen  anything  like  these,”  Nyssa  said.  “There  are  more
amazing ideas here than in Daedalus’s workshop. It would take a century
just to prototype them all.”

“Who built this place?” Jake Mason said. “And why?”
Chiron stayed silent, but Leo focused on the wall map he’d seen during
his  first  visit.  It  showed  Camp  Half-Blood  with  a  line  of  triremes  in  the
Sound, catapults mounted in the hills around the valley, and spots marked
for traps, trenches, and ambush sites.

“It’s  a  wartime  command  center,”  he  said.  “The  camp  was  attacked

once, wasn’t it?”

“In the Titan War?” Piper asked.
Nyssa  shook  her  head.  “No.  Besides,  that  map  looks  really  old.  The

date … does that say 1864?”
They all turned to Chiron.
The  centaur’s  tail  swished  fretfully.  “This  camp  has  been  attacked

many times,” he admitted. “That map is from the last Civil War.”

Apparently,  Leo  wasn’t  the  only  one  confused.  The  other  Hephaestus

campers looked at each other and frowned.

“Civil War …” Piper said. “You mean the American Civil War, like a

hundred and fifty years ago?”

“Yes and no,” Chiron said. “The two conflicts—mortal and demigod—
mirrored  each  other,  as  they  usually  do  in  Western  history.  Look  at  any

civil war or revolution from the fall of Rome onward, and it marks a time
when  demigods  also  fought  one  another.  But  that  Civil  War  was
particularly  horrible.  For  American  mortals,  it  is  still  their  bloodiest
conflict of all time—worse than their casualties in the two World Wars. For
demigods,  it  was  equally  devastating.  Even  back  then,  this  valley  was
Camp  Half-Blood.  There  was  a  horrible  battle  in  these  woods  lasting  for
days, with terrible losses on both sides.”

“Both sides,” Leo said. “You mean the camp split apart?”
“No,”  Jason  spoke  up.  “He  means  two  different  groups.  Camp  Half-

Blood was one side in the war.”

Leo  wasn’t  sure  he  wanted  an  answer,  but  he  asked,  “Who  was  the

other?”

Chiron glanced up at the tattered bunker 9 banner, as if remembering

the day it was raised.

“The answer is dangerous,” he warned. “It is something I swore upon
the River Styx never to speak of. After the American Civil War, the gods
were  so  horrified  by  the  toll  it  took  on  their  children,  that  they  swore  it
would never happen again. The two groups were separated. The gods bent
all  their  will,  wove  the  Mist  as  tightly  as  they  could,  to  make  sure  the
enemies  never  remembered each other,  never  met on their  quests,  so that
bloodshed could be avoided. This map is from the final dark days of 1864,
the  last  time  the  two  groups  fought.  We’ve  had  several  close  calls  since
then.  The nineteen  sixties were  particularly dicey. But we’ve  managed  to
avoid  another  civil  war—at  least  so  far.  Just  as  Leo  guessed,  this  bunker
was a command center for the Hephaestus cabin. In the last century, it has
been  reopened  a  few  times,  usually  as  a  hiding  place  in  times  of  great
unrest. But coming here  is  dangerous.  It  stirs  old  memories,  awakens  the
old  feuds.  Even  when  the  Titans  threatened  last  year,  I  did  not  think  it
worth the risk to use this place.”

Suddenly Leo’s sense of triumph turned to guilt. “Hey, look, this place

found me. It was meant to happen. It’s a good thing.”

“I hope you’re right,” Chiron said.
“I am!” Leo pulled the old drawing out of his pocket and spread it on

the table for everyone to see.

“There,” he said proudly. “Aeolus returned that to me. I drew it when I

was five. That’s my destiny.”

Nyssa frowned. “Leo, it’s a crayon drawing of a boat.”
“Look.” He pointed at the largest schematic on the bulletin board—the
blueprint showing a Greek trireme. Slowly, his cabinmates’ eyes widened
as they compared the two designs. The number of masts and oars, even the
decorations  on  the  shields  and  sails  were  exactly  the  same  as  on  Leo’s
drawing.

“That’s  impossible,”  Nyssa  said.  “That  blueprint  has  to  be  a  century

old at least.”

“‘Prophecy—Unclear—Flight,’”  Jake  Mason  read  from  the  notes  on
the  blueprint.  “It’s  a  diagram  for  a  flying  ship.  Look,  that’s  the  landing
gear.  And  weaponry—Holy  Hephaestus:  rotating  ballista,  mounted
crossbows, Celestial bronze plating. That thing would be one spankin’ hot
war machine. Was it ever made?”

“Not yet,” Leo said. “Look at the masthead.”
There was no doubt—the figure at the front of the ship was the head of

a dragon. A very particular dragon.

“Festus,” Piper said. Everyone turned and looked at the dragon’s head

sitting on the table.

“He’s meant to be our masthead,” Leo said. “Our good luck charm, our

eyes at sea. I’m supposed to build this ship.

I’m gonna call it the Argo II. And guys, I’ll need your help.”
“The Argo II.” Piper smiled. “After Jason’s ship.”
Jason looked a little uncomfortable, but he nodded. “Leo’s right. That

ship is just what we need for our journey.”

“What journey?” Nyssa said. “You just got back!”
Piper  ran  her  fingers  over  the  old  crayon  drawing.  “We’ve  got  to
confront Porphyrion, the giant king. He said he would destroy the gods at
their roots.”

“Indeed,”  Chiron  said.  “Much  of  Rachel’s  Great  Prophecy  is  still  a
mystery to me, but one thing is clear. You three—Jason, Piper, and Leo—
are  among  the  seven  demigods  who  must  take  on  that  quest.  You  must
confront the giants in their homeland, where they are strongest. You must
stop  them  before  they  can  wake  Gaea  fully,  before  they  destroy  Mount
Olympus.”

“Um …” Nyssa shifted. “You don’t mean Manhattan, do you?”

“No,”  Leo  said.  “The  original  Mount  Olympus.  We  have  to  sail  to

Greece.”

IT TOOK A FEW MINUTES FOR THAT TO settle in. Then the other Hephaestus
campers  started  asking  questions  all  at  once.  Who  were  the  other  four
demigods? How long would it take to build the boat? Why didn’t everyone
get to go to Greece?

“Heroes!” Chiron struck his hoof on the floor. “All the details are not
clear yet, but Leo is correct. He will need your help to build the Argo II. It
is  perhaps  the  greatest  project  Cabin  Nine  has  even  undertaken,  even
greater than the bronze dragon.”

“It’ll  take  a  year  at  least,”  Nyssa  guessed.  “Do  we  have  that  much

time?”

“You  have  six  months  at  most,”  Chiron  said.  “You  should  sail  by
summer solstice, when the gods’ power is strongest. Besides, we evidently
cannot trust the wind gods, and the summer winds are the least powerful
and easiest to navigate. You dare not sail any later, or you may be too late
to stop the giants. You must avoid ground travel, using only air and sea, so
this vehicle is perfect. Jason being the son of the sky god …”

His  voice  trailed  off,  but  Leo  figured  Chiron  was  thinking  about  his
missing  student,  Percy  Jackson,  the  son  of  Poseidon.  He  would’ve  been
good on this voyage, too.

Jake  Mason  turned  to  Leo.  “Well,  one  thing’s  for  sure.  You  are  now
senior counselor. This is the biggest honor the cabin has ever had. Anyone
object?”

Nobody did.  All  his  cabinmates  smiled at  him, and Leo could  almost
feel their cabin’s curse breaking, their sense of hopelessness melting away.

“It’s official, then,” Jake said. “You’re the man.”
For once, Leo was speechless. Ever since his mom died, he’d spent his
life on the run. Now he’d found a home and a family. He’d found a job to

do. And as scary as it was, Leo wasn’t tempted to run—not even a little.

“Well,” he said at last, “if you guys elect me leader, you must be even

crazier than I am. So let’s build a spankin’ hot war machine!”

JASON WAITED ALONE IN CABIN ONE.

Annabeth  and  Rachel  were  due  any  minute  for  the  head  counselors’

meeting, and Jason needed time to think.

His dreams the night before had been worse than he’d wanted to share
—even  with  Piper.  His  memory  was  still  foggy,  but  bits  and  pieces  were
coming back. The night Lupa had tested him at the Wolf House, to decide
if  he  would  be  a  pup  or  food.  Then  the  long  trip  south  to  …  he  couldn’t
remember, but he had flashes of his old life. The day he’d gotten his tattoo.
The day he’d been raised on a shield and proclaimed a praetor. His friends’
faces:  Dakota,  Gwendolyn,  Hazel,  Bobby.  And  Reyna.  Definitely  there’d
been a girl named Reyna. He wasn’t sure what she’d meant to him, but the
memory  made  him  question  what  he  felt  about  Piper—and  wonder  if  he
was doing something wrong. The problem was, he liked Piper a lot.

Jason  moved  his  stuff  to  the  corner  alcove  where  his  sister  had  once
slept. He put Thalia’s photograph back on the wall so he didn’t feel alone.
He  stared  up  at  the  frowning  statue  of  Zeus,  mighty  and  proud,  but  the
statue didn’t scare him anymore. It just made him feel sad.
“I know you can hear me,” Jason said to the statue.
The statue said nothing. Its painted eyes seemed to stare at him.
“I  wish  I  could  talk  with  you  in  person,”  Jason  continued,  “but  I
understand you can’t do that. The Roman gods don’t like to interact with
mortals  so  much,  and—well,  you’re  the  king.  You’ve  got  to  set  an
example.”

More  silence.  Jason  had  hoped  for  something—a  bigger  than  usual
rumble  of  thunder,  a  bright  light,  a  smile.  No,  never  mind.  A  smile
would’ve been creepy.

“I remember some things,” he said. The more he talked, the less self-
conscious  he  felt.  “I  remember  that  it’s  hard  being  a  son  of  Jupiter.
Everyone is always looking at me to be a leader, but I always feel alone. I
guess  you  feel  the  same  way  up  on  Olympus.  The  other  gods  challenge
your decisions. Sometimes you’ve got to make hard choices, and the others
criticize you. And you can’t come to my aid like other gods might. You’ve
got to keep me at a distance so it doesn’t look like you’re playing favorites.
I guess I just wanted to say …”

Jason took a deep breath. “I understand all that. It’s okay. I’m going to
try to do my best. I’ll try to make you proud. But I could really use some
guidance, Dad. If there’s anything you can do—help me so I can help my
friends. I’m afraid I’ll get them killed. I don’t know how to protect them.”

The back of his neck tingled. He realized someone was standing behind
him. He turned and found a woman in a black hooded robe, with a goatskin
cloak over her shoulders and a sheathed Roman sword—a gladius—in her
hands.

“Hera,” he said.
She  pushed  back  her  hood.  “To  you,  I  have  always  been  Juno.  And
your  father  has  already  sent  you  guidance,  Jason.  He  sent  you  Piper  and
Leo. They’re not just your responsibility. They are also your friends. Listen
to them, and you will do well.”

“Did Jupiter send you here to tell me that?”
“No one sends me anywhere, hero,” she said. “I am not a messenger.”
“But you got me into this. Why did you send me to this camp?”
“I think you know,” Juno said. “An exchange of leaders was necessary.

It was the only way to bridge to gap.”

“I didn’t agree to it.”
“No. But Zeus gave your life to me, and I am helping you fulfill your

destiny.”

Jason  tried  to  control  his  anger.  He  looked  down  at  his  orange  camp
shirt  and  the  tattoos  on  his  arm,  and  he  knew  these  things  should  not  go
together.  He  had  become  a  contradiction—a  mixture  as  dangerous  as
anything Medea could cook up.

“You’re  not  giving  me  all  my  memories,”  he  said.  “Even  though  you

promised.”

“Most  will  return  in  time,”  Juno  said.  “But  you  must  find  your  own
way  back.  You  need  these  next  months  with  your  new  friends,  your  new
home.  You’re  gaining  their  trust.  By  the  time  you  sail  in  your  ship,  you
will  be  a  leader  at  this  camp.  And  you  will  be  ready  to  be  a  peacemaker
between two great powers.”

“What if you’re not telling the truth?” he asked. “What if you’re doing

this to cause another civil war?”

Juno’s  expression  was  impossible  to  read—amusement?  Disdain?
Affection? Possibly all three. As much as she appeared human, Jason knew
she  was  not.  He  could  still  see  that  blinding  light—the  true  form  of  the
goddess that had seared itself into his brain. She was Juno and Hera. She
existed  in  many  places  at  once.  Her  reasons  for  doing  something  were
never simple.

“I  am  the  goddess  of  family,”  she  said.  “My  family  has  been  divided

for too long.”

“They divided us so we don’t kill each other,” Jason said. “That seems

like a pretty good reason.”

“The prophecy demands that we change. The giants will rise. Each can
only  be  killed  by  a  god  and  demigod  working  together.  Those  demigods
must  be  the  seven  greatest  of  the  age.  As  it  stands,  they  are  divided
between  two  places.  If  we  remain  divided,  we  cannot  win.  Gaea  is
counting on this. You must unite the heroes of Olympus and sail together
to meet the giants on the ancient battlegrounds of Greece. Only then will
the gods be convinced to join you. It will be the most dangerous quest, the
most important voyage, ever attempted by the children of the gods.”
Jason looked up again at the glowering statue of his father.
“It’s not fair,” Jason said. “I could ruin everything.”
“You could,” Juno agreed. “But gods need heroes. We always have.”
“Even you? I thought you hated heroes.”
The goddess gave him a dry smile. “I have that reputation. But if you
want  the  truth,  Jason,  I  often  envy  other  gods  their  mortal  children.  You
demigods  can  span  both  worlds.  I  think  this  helps  your  godly  parents—
even Jupiter, curse him—to understand the mortal world better than I.”

Juno sighed so unhappily that despite his anger, Jason almost felt sorry

for her.

“I am the goddess of marriage,” she said. “It is not in my nature to be
faithless. I have only two godly children—Ares and Hephaestus—both of
whom  are  disappointments.  I  have  no  mortal  heroes  to  do  my  bidding,
which is why I am so often bitter toward demigods—Heracles, Aeneas, all
of them. But it is also why I favored the first Jason, a pure mortal, who had
no godly  parent to  guide  him. And why I  am  glad  Zeus gave you to  me.
You will be my champion, Jason. You will be the greatest of heroes, and
bring unity to the demigods, and thus to Olympus.”

Her words settled over him, as heavy as sandbags. Two days ago, he’d
been  terrified  by  the  idea  of  leading  demigods  into  a  Great  Prophecy,
sailing off to battle the giants and save the world.

He  was  still  terrified,  but  something  had  changed.  He  no  longer  felt
alone. He had friends now, and a home to fight for. He even had a patron
goddess looking out for him, which had to count for something, even if she
seemed a little untrustworthy.

Jason had to stand up and accept his destiny, just as he had done when
he  faced  Porphyrion  with  his  bare  hands.  Sure,  it  seemed  impossible.  He
might die. But his friends were counting on him.

“And if I fail?” he asked.
“Great victory requires great risk,” she admitted. “Fail, and there will
be bloodshed like we have never seen. Demigods will destroy one another.
The giants will overrun Olympus. Gaea will wake, and the earth will shake
off  everything  we  have  built  over  five  millennia.  It  will  be  the  end  of  us
all.”

“Great. Just great.”
Someone pounded on the cabin doors.
Juno  pulled  her  hood  back  over  her  face.  Then  she  handed  Jason  the
sheathed gladius. “Take this for the weapon you lost. We will speak again.
Like  it  or  not,  Jason,  I  am  your  sponsor,  and  your  link  to  Olympus.  We
need each other.”

The goddess vanished as the doors creaked open, and Piper walked in.
“Annabeth and Rachel are here,” she said. “Chiron has summoned the

council.”

THE COUNCIL WAS NOTHING LIKE Jason imagined. For one thing, it was in
the Big House rec room, around a Ping-Pong table, and one of the satyrs
was  serving  nachos  and  sodas.  Somebody  had  brought  Seymour  the
leopard  head  in  from  the  living  room  and  hung  him  on  the  wall.  Every
once in a while, a counselor would toss him a Snausage.

Jason looked around the room and tried to remember everyone’s name.
Thankfully,  Leo  and  Piper  were  sitting  next  to  him—it  was  their  first
meeting  as  senior  counselors.  Clarisse,  leader  of  the  Ares  cabin,  had  her
boots on the table, but nobody seemed to care. Clovis from Hypnos cabin
was  snoring  in  the  corner  while  Butch  from  Iris  cabin  was  seeing  how
many  pencils  he  could  fit  in  Clovis’s  nostrils.  Travis  Stoll  from  Hermes
was holding a lighter under a Ping-Pong ball to see if it would burn, and
Will  Solace  from  Apollo  was  absently  wrapping  and  unwrapping  an  Ace
bandage  around  his  wrist.  The  counselor  from  Hecate  cabin,  Lou  Ellen
something-or-other,  was  playing  “got-your-nose”  with  Miranda  Gardiner
from  Demeter,  except  that  Lou  Ellen  really  had  magically  disconnected
Miranda’s nose, and Miranda was trying to get it back.

Jason  had  hoped  Thalia  would  show.  She’d  promised,  after  all—but
she  was  nowhere  to  be  seen.  Chiron  had  told  him  not  to  worry  about  it.
Thalia  often  got  sidetracked  fighting  monsters  or  running  quests  for
Artemis, and she would probably arrive soon. But still, Jason worried.

Rachel Dare, the oracle, sat next to Chiron at the head of the table. She
was wearing her Clarion Academy school uniform dress, which seemed a
bit odd, but she smiled at Jason.

Annabeth  didn’t  look  so  relaxed.  She  wore  armor  over  her  camp
clothes,  with  her  knife  at  her  side  and  her  blond  hair  pulled  back  in  a
ponytail.  As  soon  as  Jason  walked  in,  she  fixed  him  with  an  expectant

look,  as  if  she  were  trying  to  extract  information  out  of  him  by  sheer
willpower.

“Let’s  come  to  order,”  Chiron  said.  “Lou  Ellen,  please  give  Miranda
her  nose  back.  Travis,  if  you’d  kindly  extinguish  the  flaming  Ping-Pong
ball,  and  Butch,  I  think  twenty  pencils  is  really  too  many  for  any  human
nostril.  Thank  you.  Now,  as  you  can  see,  Jason,  Piper,  and  Leo  have
returned  successfully…  more  or  less.  Some  of  you  have  heard  parts  of
their story, but I will let them fill you in.”

Everyone  looked  at  Jason.  He  cleared  his  throat  and  began  the  story.

Piper and Leo chimed in from time to time, filling in the details he forgot.

It  only  took  a  few  minutes,  but  it  seemed  like  longer  with  everyone
watching him. The silence was heavy, and for so many ADHD demigods
to sit still listening for that long, Jason knew the story must have sounded
pretty wild. He ended with Hera’s visit right before the meeting.

“So Hera was here,” Annabeth said. “Talking to you.”
Jason nodded. “Look, I’m not saying I trust her—”
“That’s smart,” Annabeth said.
“—but  she  isn’t  making  this  up  about  another  group  of  demigods.

That’s where I came from.”

“Romans.”  Clarisse  tossed  Seymour  a  Snausage.  “You  expect  us  to
believe  there’s  another  camp  with  demigods,  but  they  follow  the  Roman
forms of the gods. And we’ve never even heard of them.”

Piper sat forward. “The gods have kept the two groups apart, because

every time they see each other, they try to kill each other.”

“I  can  respect  that,”  Clarisse  said.  “Still,  why  haven’t  we  ever  run

across each other on quests?”

“Oh,  yes,”  Chiron  said  sadly.  “You  have,  many  times.  It’s  always  a
tragedy, and always the gods do their best to wipe clean the memories of
those  involved.  The  rivalry  goes  all  the  way  back  to  the  Trojan  War,
Clarisse. The Greeks invaded Troy and burned it to the ground. The Trojan
hero  Aeneas  escaped,  and  eventually  made  his  way  to  Italy,  where  he
founded  the  race  that  would  someday  become  Rome.  The  Romans  grew
more  and  more  powerful,  worshipping  the  same  gods  but  under  different
names, and with slightly different personalities.”

“More  warlike,”  Jason  said.  “More  united.  More  about  expansion,

conquest, and discipline.”
“Yuck,” Travis put in.
Several  of  the  others  looked  equally  uncomfortable,  though  Clarisse

shrugged like it sounded okay to her.

Annabeth  twirled  her  knife  on  the  table.  “And  the  Romans  hated  the
Greeks.  They  took  revenge  when  they  conquered  the  Greek  isles,  and
made them part of the Roman Empire.”

“Not  exactly  hated  them,”  Jason  said.  “The  Romans  admired  Greek
culture, and were a little jealous. In return, the Greeks thought the Romans
were barbarians, but they respected their military power. So during Roman
times, demigods started to divide—either Greek or Roman.”

“And  it’s  been  that  way  ever  since,”  Annabeth  guessed.  “But  this  is
crazy. Chiron, where were the Romans during the Titan War? Didn’t they
want to help?”

Chiron tugged at his beard. “They did help, Annabeth. While you and
Percy were leading the battle to save Manhattan, who do think conquered
Mount Othrys, the Titans’ base in California?”

“Hold  on,”  Travis  said.  “You  said  Mount  Othrys  just  crumbled  when

we beat Kronos.”

“No,”  Jason  said.  He  remembered  flashes  of  the  battle—a  giant  in
starry  armor  and  a  helm  mounted  with  ram’s  horns.  He  remembered  his
army  of  demigods  scaling  Mount  Tam,  fighting  through  hordes  of  snake
monsters. “It didn’t just fall. We destroyed their palace. I defeated the Titan
Krios myself.”

Annabeth’s eyes were as stormy as a ventus. Jason could almost see her
thoughts  moving,  putting  the  pieces  together.  “The  Bay  Area.  We
demigods  were  always  told  to  stay  away  from  it  because  Mount  Othrys
was there. But that wasn’t the only reason, was it? The Roman camp—it’s
got  to  be  somewhere  near  San  Francisco.  I  bet  it  was  put  there  to  keep
watch on the Titans’ territory. Where is it?”

Chiron shifted in his wheelchair. “I cannot say. Honestly, even I have
never  been  trusted  with  that  information.  My  counterpart,  Lupa,  is  not
exactly the sharing type. Jason’s memory, too, has been burned away.”

“The  camp’s  heavily  veiled  with  magic,”  Jason  said.  “And  heavily

guarded. We could search for years and never find it.”

Rachel Dare laced her fingers. Of all the people in the room, only she
didn’t  seem  nervous  about  the  conversation.  “But  you’ll  try,  won’t  you?
You’ll  build  Leo’s  boat,  the  Argo  II.  And  before  you  make  for  Greece,
you’ll  sail  for  the  Roman  camp.  You’ll  need  their  help  to  confront  the
giants.”

“Bad plan,” Clarisse warned. “If those Romans see a warship coming,

they’ll assume we’re attacking.”

“You’re probably right,” Jason agreed. “But we have to try. I was sent
here  to  learn  about  Camp  Half-Blood,  to  try  to  convince  you  the  two
camps don’t have to be enemies. A peace offering.”

“Hmm,” Rachel said. “Because Hera is convinced we need both camps
to  win  the  war  with  the  giants.  Seven  heroes  of  Olympus—some  Greek,
some Roman.”

Annabeth nodded. “Your Great Prophecy—what’s the last line?”
“And foes bear arms to the Doors of Death.”
“Gaea has opened the Doors of Death,” Annabeth said. “She’s letting
out  the  worst  villains  of  the  Underworld  to  fight  us.  Medea,  Midas—
there’ll  be  more,  I’m  sure.  Maybe  the  line  means  that  the  Roman  and
Greek demigods will unite, and find the doors, and close them.”

“Or it could mean they fight each other at the doors of death,” Clarisse

pointed out. “It doesn’t say we’ll cooperate.”

There was silence as the campers let that happy thought sink in.
“I’m  going,”  Annabeth  said.  “Jason,  when  you  get  this  ship  built,  let

me go with you.”

“I was hoping you’d offer,” Jason said. “You of all people —we’ll need

you.”

“Wait.”  Leo  frowned.  “I  mean  that’s  cool  with  me  and  all.  But  why

Annabeth of all people?”

Annabeth and Jason studied one another, and Jason knew she had put it

together. She saw the dangerous truth.

“Hera  said  my  coming  here  was  an  exchange  of  leaders,”  Jason  said.

“A way for the two camps to learn of each other’s existence.”

“Yeah?” Leo said. “So?”

“An  exchange  goes  two  ways,”  Jason  said.  “When  I  got  here,  my
memory  was  wiped.  I  didn’t  know  who  I  was  or  where  I  belonged.
Fortunately, you guys took me in and I found a new home. I know you’re
not my enemy. The Roman camp—they’re not so friendly. You prove your
worth quickly, or you don’t survive. They may not be so nice to him, and if
they learn where he comes from, he’s going to be in serious trouble.”

“Him?” Leo said. “Who are you talking about?”
“My  boyfriend,”  Annabeth  said  grimly.  “He  disappeared  around  the

same time Jason appeared. If Jason came to Camp Half-Blood—”

“Exactly,”  Jason  agreed.  “Percy  Jackson  is  at  the  other  camp,  and  he

probably doesn’t even remember who he is.”
